. "To be a truly sustainable city, we need to tackle this challenge head on."For decades, the city's trash has been exported by rail or barge. It is sent to South Carolina, Virginia, New Jersey, Pennsylvania or upstate New York. The new plan would eliminate almost all of the garbage exports. They cost the city more than $350 million a year.The amount of waste produced by the city has fallen 14 percent since 2005. That is due to an increase in recycling. A key component of the plan is to bolster that output by simplifying the process.Currently, residential buildings have two types of recycling bins. The city's new single-stream plan would consolidate all recycling into one bin by 2020.Organics — such as food scraps and yard waste — make up 31 percent of the city's residential waste stream. A program to collect that material directly from residents' homes is being expanded. The goal is to reach nearly 200,000 residents by year's end. Officials want to serve every home in the city by the end of 2018. The city also will offer economic incentives to participate. The incentives could eventually include a property tax rebate for homeowners.The city also aims to reduce commercial waste by 90 percent by 2030. It would adopt a program similar to what is being used in residential buildings. That could also mean tax incentives for businesses that participate. Those that don't take part could be fined.The de Blasio administration stopped short of endorsing a City Council bill. It proposes a 10-cent fee on plastic bags. Officials said that reducing their use is a priority.The OneNYC presentation is meant to build on de Blasio's environmental record. That includes a ban on Styrofoam boxes. The goal is to reduce carbon emissions from city buildings by 80 percent by 2050.Environmental groups applauded the plan's wide-ranging scope."We see cities all over the world struggling with waste," said Michael Berkowitz. He is president of 100 Resilient Cities. "A more efficient city is a more resilient city. And that means it's a stronger city."