In the days after a crushing earthquake hit the country of Nepal on April 25, there is still time to save lives.  Many governments and aid agencies are sending doctors, volunteers and equipment. They aren't waiting for the dust to settle. The estimates are that thousands of people have been killed. No one knows how many are injured or without food.U.N. spokeswoman Orla Fagan said preventing the spread of disease is one of the most important tasks facing aid workers. Nepal is between India and Tibet. It is home to Mount Everest, the world's largest mountain and part of the Himalayas. An avalanche caused by the quake killed some climbers on the mountain."There are 14 international medical teams on the way and either 14 or 15 international search-and-rescue teams on the way," Fagan said. "They need to get in as soon as possible. They will use military aircraft to get them into Nepal."Diarrhea was already a growing problem. A measles outbreak was feared. Vaccines are in short supply, the U.N. warned in a report.Substantial logistical hurdles remain. But there were hopeful signs as Kathmandu's international airport reopened. There were still delays as aftershocks continued. Some aid vehicles were able to travel over land from India to the stricken Nepalese city of Pokhara."That means supplies could potentially come in over land from India. That is a positive sign," said Ben Pickering, Save the Children's humanitarian adviser in Britain. "The airport opening is a small miracle."He cautioned that chaotic conditions may create a bottleneck at the airport. That could occur as governments and aid agencies try to bring in personnel and supplies.The need is great. UNICEF said Sunday that nearly 1 million children in areas affected by the earthquake are in "urgent need" of humanitarian assistance. UNICEF staff reported dwindling water supplies, power shortages and communications breakdowns.Celebrities like singer Shakira sent tweets appealing for help for UNICEF. The mobile payment company Square created a "cashtag" to donate: cash.me/$unicef. PayPal announced it was waiving fees for donations to several aid organizations.Information was still lacking about conditions at the earthquake's epicenter, Pickering said."Going forward it's about access to the epicenter and helicopters are the key," Pickering said. He added that Save the Children has emergency kits pre-positioned in three warehouses in Nepal. The organization plans to distribute bedding, buckets and other basic supplies to 2,000 families as quickly as possible.Other charities face similar roadblocks.International Search and Rescue Germany said a team of 52 relief workers including doctors, experts trained in searching for people buried under rubble and several dog squads were being flown in. The team will bring a mobile medical treatment center.Spokesman Stefan Heine said the priority was to get to the scene of the quake as quickly as possible. The goal is to find those still alive.They will be supported by numerous governments that have announced plans to send aid worth millions of dollars.A U.S. military plane departed Sunday morning for Nepal carrying 70 personnel. The group included a U.S. Agency for International Development disaster assistance response team. An urban search-and-rescue team from Fairfax, Virginia and 45 tons of cargo were also on board. California was sending a team of 57 urban search-and-rescue workers.The United Arab Emirates deployed an 88-member search-and-rescue team to Nepal. The Emirates Red Crescent also sent a team.The Israeli military said it is sending a 260-member mission. The group will provide immediate search-and-rescue help and medical aid. The mission includes approximately 95 tons of humanitarian and medical supplies and a medical staff of 122 doctors, nurses and paramedics. European nations deployed as well. France said it would send 11 rescuers on Sunday. Britain announced that an advance team of eight had been sent and that a $7.6 million aid package would be available. Italy deployed a team of experts from its Civil Protection Department as well as it foreign crisis team. The Swiss Foreign Ministry said a team of experts including a doctor, a building surveyor and water quality technician had left for Nepal.Poland is sending a rescue team of 81 firefighters. The country is providing heavy equipment and several dogs, as well several medics. The firefighters were delayed by aftershocks and confusion at Kathmandu's airport, said Pawel Fratczak, spokesman for firefighters.Canada sent an advance unit from its urban disaster search and rescue team. The unit includes medical personnel and humanitarian relief supplies.Volunteers from various British charities gathered at London's Heathrow Airport. They prepared for flights to the Nepal region. Gary Francis is the leader of the Search and Rescue Assistance in Disasters group. He said the organization was bringing in enough tents, food and water to operate self-sufficiently for 15 days.They were bringing in "a vast array" of equipment. It included sound and vibration detectors, seismic listening devices and cutting equipment. Their goal would be to find survivors. U.N. humanitarian chief Valerie Amos said "entire areas have been flattened." She said time is very important in search-and-rescue efforts.