Linking reading to technology, the White House has pulled together major book publishers. They will provide more than $250 million in free e-books to low-income students. Commitments are also being sought from local governments and schools across the country to ensure that every student has a library card.President Barack Obama announced the two initiatives at a Washington library on Thursday, April 30. They are part of his two-year-old program. It is called ConnectEd.  The program aims to improve education through digital connectivity.The offer of e-books comes as low-income households still lag far behind others in computer ownership. But White House officials said libraries and schools in poor communities are increasing access to the Internet. Among the publishers participating in the program are some familiar names. They include Macmillan, Simon &amp; Schuster and Penguin Random House.At the same time, Obama will appeal to library directors, local governments and school officials. He would like to see them to work together. The president wants them to provide universal access to library cards. The White House already has commitments from 30 cities and counties. They range from Baltimore to San Francisco and points in between.Obama's ConnectEd program aims to make broadband Internet access available to 99 percent of American students. The goal is for that to happen by 2018. Already, companies such as Apple have pledged to provide $100 million worth of devices to lower-income schools. That is according to Jeff Zients. He is the director of the White House National Economic Council.The announcement came after Obama called on Americans to do "some soul searching" in the wake of riots that have shaken minority communities."If we're serious about living up to what our country is about, then we have to consider what we can do to provide opportunities in every community. Not just when they're on the front page, but every day," Zients said.A U.S. Census Bureau study of computer and Internet use issued in November found that in 2013 nearly 84 percent of households reported owning a computer. Among households with incomes under $25,000, however, only 62 percent said they owned a computer."They may not be on the grid at home," said Cecilia Munoz, director of Obama's Domestic Policy Council. But they certainly have Internet access at school, she said.