Surfers catching waves and mountain bikers pedaling through forests are used to the occasional low flying pelican or diving hawk. But these days, outdoor recreationists may find what's up in the air isn't a bird at all. It's a drone.Last week top drone-makers, along with investors, regulators and inventors, gathered. They were in one of the most popular regions for outdoor activity in the U.S. It's California's Central Coast. They showed off their devices. They also heard about new uses for airborne robots.  And, they hit the waves and trails.The meeting was the Drones Data X Conference Santa Cruz. It ran from May 1 to 3 and also featured experts. They explained how unmanned-aerial vehicles can map remote areas or rescue hikers or swimmers.Federal regulators are still sorting out drone rules. They were on hand to discuss updates on regulations. Those discussions included whether operators need to keep a drone within their line of sight, how high they can go and whether they can fly directly above a person."Drones are in a bit of their Wild West period right now. But in the future they'll be used to transport people, medicine, goods. Anything done on a highway will just as well be done by air," conference organizer Philip McNamara said.Spending on unmanned aerial vehicles is projected to double over the next decade. It should grow from about $6.4 billion a year to $11.5 billion a year. That is according to industry analyst Teal Group.McNamara said about 90 percent of the investment money flowing toward drone technologies comes from the nation's high tech hub. That's Silicon Valley. It's about 30 miles from where the conference was held. Santa Cruz economic development director Bonnie Lipscomb said the city hoped some firms will liked what they saw. The area includes sandy beaches and redwood forests.Local mountain bike and kite surfing companies are loaned gear and expertise to the conference.Sergio Capozzi at the Society of Outdoor Recreation Professionals said there is both crossover and conflict between outdoor recreationists and drone enthusiasts."There is likely an appropriate time and place for drones in nature. The challenge comes in finding the right balance of when and where drones are appropriate," he said.Prices are expected to go down and drone technology will advance. Park and wilderness visitors who want to use drones also need to make sure that everyone is having a safe and enjoyable experience, Capozzi said. He noted that, on the plus side, drones can be used to gather photos and videos. They would not be accessible otherwise."Sharing these experiences encourages others to seek out similar experiences. In particular on public landscapes," he said.Richard Dolesh is a vice president at the National Recreation and Park Association. He said park managers aren't paying enough attention to increased drone use. He said people who are managing outdoor land and outdoor recreation aren't aware of what it's going to take to effectively manage drones.Dolesh noted that national parks banned drones. Visitors complained about their noise."People travel long distances," he said, "for peace and solitude."