The purpose of this research synthesis is to examine the current research on teaching and learning research methods. The aims are to understand the themes present in the current literature and identify gaps in our understanding of how we teach, and how students learn, research methods. A synthesis of 89 studies generated three themes: (1) characteristics of students taking a research methods course, (2) teaching methods and techniques, and (3) content and course goals. Gaps identified include a lack of research on assessment and on what and how students learn in research methods courses. The majority of studies reviewed were teacher reports of attempted teaching strategies so that an additional need exists for other types of research into the teaching and learning of research methods such as case studies of students' learning or experimental studies of assessment techniques. Suggestions for instructors and future research are considered. There are challenges faced by instructors of any university course, and introductory research methods courses are no exception. Research methods is considered by many to be a complex domain (Ball and Pelco 2006; Birbill, n.d.; Braguglia and Jackson 2012; Crooks, Castleden, and Van Meerveld 2010; Deem and Lucas 2006; Denham 1997; Lehti and Lehtinen 2005; Murtonen and Lehtinen 2005; Potter, Caffrey, and Plante 2003; Sachs 2002; Strangman and Knowles 2012; Winn 1995) that involves a combination of procedures and definitions, many of which Lehti and Lehtinen (2005) argue that the ‘academic community itself has no uniform conception of’ (218). Schutt, Blalock, and Wagenaar (1984 cited in Potter, Caffrey, and Plante 2003) remind us that research is a ‘sustained task that involves a number of different kinds of activities that must be interrelated carefully and for which decisions made at one state of the process influence choices at later ones’ (38). Research methods instructors must somehow demonstrate these interrelated tasks and complexities so that students new to the research process (and those not typically majoring in research methodology) can understand and ultimately apply them. A second challenge we face is whether to focus on training consumers of research or producers of research, or both (Hardcastle and Bisman 2003; Onwuegbuzie, Slate, and Schwartz 2001). This in part reflects what Phillips and Russell (1994) described as ‘the need to recognize individual differences among students in their abilities and desires to do research’ (628–629). While each type of student requires similar content, the style of teaching and the form of assessment may vary based on this focus. Consumers of research will not typically go on to conduct research on their own but will pursue careers that rely on a fundamental knowledge of research in order to stay current (Rodriguez and Toews 2005). For example, many teachers will not go on to conduct basic research but should be able to read the research literature related to teaching and learning in their field. Producers of research, on the other hand, will go on to professions or graduate schools that require or at least encourage a certain amount of basic research as part of the job. These students will need a much deeper understanding of the hows of research that consumers of research may not need. And some may argue that both types of students require the same foundational research knowledge; introductory courses should, therefore, address both types equally with the same content and assessment. Another challenge we face is ‘research methods education’, is not an established field of research like, for example, math education, nursing education, science education, or statistics education (Garner, Wagner, and Kawulich, 2009; Wagner, Garner, and Kawulich 2011). There are no scholarly journals devoted solely to teaching research methods; these sources are instead scattered across disciplines and journals (e.g. nursing [e.g. Nurse Researcher, Volume 13, Number 2, 2005], sociology [e.g.Sociology, Volume 15, Issue 4, November 1981], and education [e.g. Scandinavian Journal of Educational Research, Volume 49, Issue 1, July 2005]). And even though research methods courses are a staple in many undergraduate and graduate programs, teachers, as a part of their own graduate programs, rarely receive formal instruction in how to teach research methods (typical of many disciplines). Left to their own devices, research methods teachers must rely on a network of peers, scattered research literature, and much trial-and-error as they develop and improve upon their own research methods courses. With these ideas in mind, I undertook the current research synthesis to explore what exactly we do know about the teaching and learning of research methods. The specific research questions addressed by this synthesis include the following: What does the current literature tell us about teaching research methods? What does the current literature tell us about the learning of research methods?  What gaps are there in the current literature related to teaching and learning research methods? What suggestions for further research can be identified through an exploration of the current literature on teaching and learning research methods? A similar review was presented in 2011 by Wagner, Garner, and Kawulich that generated seven themes related to the research methods literature: Research methods teaching in general, Teaching qualitative research methods, Teaching quantitative research methods and statistics, Teaching mixed methods, Techniques for teaching research methods, Teaching research methods for specific disciplines, and Teaching ethics in research. Their review covered 195 articles spanning the years 1997–2007. The current review differs in several ways: first, it hopes to dig deeper into the ‘techniques for teaching research methods’ and ‘research methods teaching in general’ themes presented by these authors; second, it will cover articles running up to 2012 as well as some pre-1997; and third, it will focus only on general research methods courses across disciplines rather than the set of articles that led to themes 2 through 4 above. Interestingly, there is not much overlap in the reference lists of these two reviews, although there is some.