This paper reports on a mixed-methods study related to K–12 teachers’ understandings of what research is, and what enables or inhibits teacher use of research in the classroom towards informing their instructional practices. In a collaboration exemplifying school board and university partnerships, we examined the nature of associations between teachers and education research(ers). Our findings indicated that teachers felt both connected and disconnected to research practices in education. Participants suggested ways to establish and sustain better links and collaborations among the communities of teaching and research. This paper emphasizes the importance of universities, schools and teachers working together to conduct meaningful research and apply current knowledge in the field of education. Academics DO the research FOR teachers who then are to TAKE the research and use it in their practice. … [W]e need to stop DOING things TO teachers and students and start learning WITH them. The rich dialogue that takes place when university researchers and teacher-practitioner-researchers come together to learn from one another – [on] a two-way street – … makes for a very exciting experience! (Elementary school teacher). Education researchers and teachers share the goal of continually improving instructional practices in order to positively affect students’ learning and achievement. Evidence-based teaching practices are increasingly expected and encouraged (for example, in the European Union – Evidence Informed Policy in Education in Europe 2010; in Ontario – Knowledge Network of Applied Education Research. 2010). However, traditionally, there has been a divide between research and classroom practice (McIntyre2005), as teachers seldom access related research across curriculum areas (Williams and Coles 2007). At the same time, university researchers need to follow their own agendas, established by academia, and ‘have historically been poor at acknowledging their need for [teachers’ knowledge]’ (Gore and Gitlin 2004, 36). This situation is slowly changing with the recent push from ministries of education to find innovative ways to bridge the research–practice gap (Qi and Levin 2010), and because of increased understanding within education communities of the value of teachers and university researchers collaborating more in education research.