Within the realm of K–12 education, instability is an inherent feature that school leaders must successfully manage. Turbulence, in the form of micro-level issues (day-to-day, in-house happenings) and macro-level concerns (externally imposed organizational disturbances/changes), develops indiscriminately and may escalate quickly without adequate warning. Therefore, it is necessary to understand the means by which a school leader can moderate the school atmosphere. This paper reveals the decisions, devices, and behaviors of one school principal who worked to minimize the effects of turbulent conditions in the senior high school setting. The findings illuminate particular leadership tools and actions that may be of assistance to school leaders who seek to better stabilize their schools. Introduction Turbulence is an inherent feature of the public school and is something that school leaders must successfully manage. As Gross (1998) explained, there are many sources of turbulence that may arise, including a disjointed community, isolation, issue overload, tension-filled conditions, loss of support, communication problems, rapid changes, value-conflicts, and external pressures. According to Gross’s (2006) turbulence theory, the concept of positionality is important, since where a person stands in relation to the turbulence will determine how he or she experiences it. This is because turbulence “is not usually spread around the school and community in a uniform way” (Gross, 2006, p. 56), and the school principal’s position lends to a preoccupation with many of the conflicts that develop within the organization. Unfortunately, such conflicts may cluster at any given time, and these combined forces or events may become formidable, as they create a cascading effect that escalates the level of turbulence that the school faces (Gross, 2006; Shapiro & Gross, 2013). For the school leader, the cascading effect is something that is often very real and may require a high capacity for management, decision-making, and action. Furthermore, the school leader must consider when to deliberately heighten the level of turbulence within the organization, for the purpose of gaining positive results in pursuing particular goals (Shapiro & Gross, 2013). Along with the school principal’s role and expertise in handling turbulence, the school’s stability will determine whether it can withstand heightened levels of turbulence. The school’s stability level depends on past and present circumstances, members’ confidence in the inherent worthiness of the organization, and the school’s ability to be flexible while turning turbulent experiences into opportunities (Gross & Shapiro, 2013). Purpose of the Study The purpose of this study was to examine the workings of a school principal who sought to manage turbulence within the senior high school environment. The study explores the lived experiences of the Edward L. Myers The Professional Educator leader, subordinates, and stakeholders who were involved with the school organization. The focus is on gaining an understanding of the school principal’s intentions, and then examining his actual leadership decisions and behaviors, as experienced by school stakeholders. Specifically, this study seeks to reveal whether the school principal was able to successfully lead the school organization during times of heightened turbulence, and to determine what allowed or disallowed him to do so. The perceptions of administrators, teachers, staff, parents, community members, and recent graduates were utilized to gather an understanding of the principal’s leadership behavior. This process was set to generate an understanding of how leader competencies and organizational behavior relate to the management of turbulence within the school environment. A Primer on Turbulence within the School Organization Putnam (1991) revealed that, “within any environment, there are areas of calm, agitation, opportunity, and danger – as well as areas of unknown risks. Because of these coexisting but conflicting elements, all environments are turbulent” (pp. 1–2). As an aggregate of uninhibited forces arise, the degree of instability increases (Putnam, 1991). However, with the right decisions, skills, and actions, a school can appropriately harness turbulence within the organizational environment (Gross, 2006; Putnam, 1991; Shapiro & Gross, 2013). Intertwined with turbulence is the concept of change, which is fundamental to school leadership in the 21st century. According to Fullan (2009), school principals have the difficult task of managing two different worlds: The old world is still around, with expectations that the principal will run a smooth school and to be responsive to all; simultaneously, the new world rains down on schools with disconnected demands, expecting that at the end of the day the school constantly should be showing better test results and ideally becoming a learning organization. (p. 57) With this “double world” comes the paradox effect, which, as Jaffee (2001) discusses, “stems from the multiple consequences of a single action which seem to contradict or work at cross-purposes with another” (p. 34). Even with the best of intentions, the actions of a school principal within such a world create a natural tension, as both positive and negative organizational effects occur (Jaffee, 2001). More than two decades ago, Morgan (1988) accurately predicted the 21st century management world, which consists of tension, ambiguity, and paradox, and proposed that managers must cope with chaotic, ambiguous situations through creative actions and solutions. Morgan also explained the necessity for managers to understand that complexity is innate to the leadership game: Many managers may want simplicity, but the reality is that they have to deal with complexity. The complexity of organizational life is increasing rather than decreasing, as manifested in the conflicting demands posed by multiple stakeholders, the need for managers to deal with many things at once, and the almost continuous state of transition in which organizations exist. (p. 12) Quite possibly, the school organization stands as the most appropriate venue for Morgan’s thinking. This is due to the multiplicity of issues and concerns that need to be addressed within the educational domain (Beck, 1994; Blankstein, 2004; Gross, 1998; Sernak, 1998; Shapiro & Gross, 2013). Taming Turbulence Volume 38, No. 2  Fall, 2014 Fullan (2009) outlines various forces of turbulence, fragmentation, and change that mark today’s typical educational institution, including a lack of coherence in mission; disconnections within the school curriculum; incomplete and/or insufficient teaching modalities; student alienation and strained relationships; an anti-intellectual peer culture; and a lack of student support and attention due to large, overcrowded schools (p. 42). While high levels of turbulence are very real within today’s K–12 school system, Sergiovanni (2005) argues that, with the right mix of values, systems, structures, and actions, school leaders hold the capacity to successfully defend against the obstacles they face as they work to improve their respective schools. From this perspective, various authors have offered their views on how to best manage the forces of turbulence, change, and paradox within school organizations (Fullan, 2010; Kochanek, 2005; MacGilchrist, Myers, & Reed, 2004; O’Donoghue & Clarke, 2010; Schlechty, 2005). In fact, various conceptual ingredients have been offered for managing, leading, and improving school organizations in turbulent times. Included in the mix are such terms as networked organizations, distributed leadership, professional learning communities, ethical decision-making practices, operational intelligence, collective capacities, teacher leadership, and systemic vision (Fullan, 2009; Gabriel, 2005; Kochanek, 2005; Lambert, 2003; Lunenburg & Irby, 2006; MacGilchrist, Myers, & Reed, 2004; O’Donoghue & Clarke, 2010; Strike, 2007). While some of these focus on the decisions and actions of the school leader, others center on more global organizational behavior. In light of the modalities school leaders currently have available to them during turbulent times, there is an urgent call to microscopically study the actualities of school leadership practice in today’s schools. This is due to the sociopolitical conditions that have made turbulence and change very real to the educational arena in the 21st century. To better understand the attributes, proficiencies, and limitations of school leadership practice, it is necessary to analyze the activity that plays out in K–12 public school settings. By doing so, scholars and practitioners can better understand what is being done to combat the turbulent forces currently disrupting the educational process. In turn, school leaders, scholars, and practitioners can learn lessons in educational leadership through real-world scenarios. 