Visual arts teachers engage in complex work on a daily basis. This work is informed by practical knowledge that is rarely examined or drawn on in research or in the development of policy. Focusing on the work of secondary visual arts teachers, this article reports on a research program conducted in a regional area of New South Wales, Australia. The research engages in a collaborative process of educational connoisseurship and educational criticism to examine and discuss classroom practice. The process is underpinned by a belief in research as an act of discovery and is guided by a framework that provides a language and grammar of practice. Drawing on qualitative data, discussion focuses on how the collaborative process enables the mobilization and generation of new knowledge. The article concludes by considering the relationship between teaching practice, research, and policy development and by recommending support for collaborative research-based initiatives that foreground the knowledge of teachers. In the field of teacher education, there is evidence of growing advocacy for a shift from a focus on knowledge to a focus on practice (Grossman and McDonald 2008; Grossman, Hammerness, and McDonald 2009; Ball and Forzani 2009; Reid 2011). This shift has been variously termed a “practice turn” or a “practice (re)turn” (Reid 2011). As Deborah Loewenberg Ball and Francesca Forzani (2009, 503) note, such a shift requires a move from a focus “on what teachers know to a greater focus on what teachers do.” It further requires research that closely examines the work of teachers for the purposes of understanding teaching and informing changes to teacher education curriculum and pedagogy. Key ideas that inform the work of teacher education in this process have been developed by Pam Grossman and colleagues (Grossman and McDonald 2008; Grossman, Hammerness, and McDonald 2009) as they work toward the development of frameworks for documenting and representing the complexity of teaching practice. In Australia, such a focus on practice is timely, given the recent and seemingly increasing interest of government in matters of both school-based education and teacher education. Australia, like many other countries, is facing many educational challenges. Belief in the importance of equitable educational outcomes has placed focus on the achievement of students. Achievement is being measured in relation to outcomes on international tests such as the Programme for International Assessment (PISA) and the Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS) and through standardized national testing in the form of the National Assessment Program Literacy and Numeracy (NAPLAN). This program of assessment has been implemented as part of the broader “Education Revolution,” a reform agenda initiated in 2008 that encompasses a national curriculum, NAPLAN, a school building program, national partnerships, national professional teaching standards, and a controversial website entitled “My School.” The political discourse surrounding these reforms has focused on social justice and equity, better outcomes for students, and the need for a world-class curriculum that provides global opportunities for Australians. However, until relatively recently, there has been little recognition of research that demonstrates that it is teachers and their practices that make the greatest difference to student outcomes, particularly in relation to disadvantage (Hayes et al. 2006; Hattie 2009; Townsend 2001). Likewise, at the policy level, there has been little consideration of the complexities of implementation and the need for teacher professional development. As John Hattie (2003, 2–3) notes: We have poured more money into school buildings, school structures, we hear so much about reduced class sizes and new examinations and curricula. . . . The answer lies elsewhere—it lies in the person who gently closes the classroom door and performs the teaching act—the person who puts into place the end effects of many policies, who interprets these policies, and who is alone with students during their 15,000 hours of schooling. As media commentators and educationalists alike now start to acknowledge the limitations of the recent reforms, a new focus on teacher quality in relation to preservice and continuing teacher education has emerged. However, teachers are rarely presented as knowledgeable or highly competent practitioners. Rather, a picture is emerging of teachers as both responsible for the failings of government policy and in need of personal and professional reform. While not negating the importance of teacher quality or the importance of teacher professional development, I argue that any policy development must take into account what teachers already do, how they do it, and why they do it. This suggests a need to investigate, understand, and represent the complexity of teaching practice broadly and in specialist areas. I further suggest a need to resist a deficit view of teachers by illustrating the importance and depth of teachers’ everyday work.