The undergraduate computer science curriculum is generally focused on skills and tools; most students are not exposed to much research in the field, and do not learn how to navigate the research literature. We describe how fiction reviews (and specifically science fiction) are used as a gateway to research reviews. Students learn a little about current or recent research on a topic that stirs their imagination, and learn how to search for, read critically, and compare technical papers on a topic related to their chosen science fiction book, movie, or TV show. Science fiction has inspired generations of would-be computer scientists and engineers. Some people draw direct lines from particular works to subsequent inventions: From Heinlein’s Waldo, Inc. to modern automated assembly lines [Heinlein 1950]; from Neal Stephenson’s Snow Crash to Second Life [Stephenson 1992]. Many computer science students are avid science fiction readers. This article addresses the question of how to harness their enthusiasm to propel such students past a state of passively fulfilling course obligations into the world of computer science research. Too many undergraduate computer science students finish their education with no idea what computer science research is. Many of the students are in school, and the majority get well-paying jobs and do not pursue graduate study [Computing Research Association 2009]. Many of these students have no motivation to explore the research literature, no clue about what constitutes research, peer review, or publication. It is better for the field of computer science when practitioners have some connection to research in the field. Technology and knowledge are changing rapidly; practitioners must be able to follow trends and developments, be able to find more information about things they read about in Wired or Slashdot, and be able to evaluate the sources of information. It is important that our students be exposed to the research literature, and have at least a rudimentary understanding of the peer review process. Some may end up discovering a taste or passion for research. They may contribute to the research of other by offering technical challenges, or possibly funding. And they should be able to access and take advantage of the work that has already been done. The goal of the exercise described here is for students to start from their own interests and to explore research related to those interests. The context of this discovery is a senior-level computer science elective, that is, Introduction to Artificial Intelligence, and the exercise consist of student reviews of science fiction books, movies, or other media that contain significant AI content. We have used the same exercise in graduate courses on AI, machine learning, and cognitive sciences, with similarly enthusiastic responses. This article focuses on the undergraduate experience. The assignment we describe is not limited to AI, science fiction, or undergraduates. For example, students in cryptography or security courses could analyze espionage novels for their quasi-realistic portrayals of the state of the art. Students in image processing could critique the ubiquitous “enhancement” techniques shown on primetime television shows. We will describe the assignment through the lens of science fiction and artificial intelligence as it is how the assignment has been delivered to date. For the last several years, I have walked in to the first artificial intelligence1 class of the semester and asked the students’ permission to not give exams. After a while, someone in the class usually recovers from the shock and asks what would replace the exams. I tell them that there are many options, and each student will have to choose one option for their midterm and a different one for the final. We discuss the options, and they vote. These options are in addition to 5 or 6 significant AI programming assignments that all the students are supposed to do over the course of the semester, making topics, such as search, SAT solvers, and inference and/or planning under uncertainty concrete for them. The options on offer are that they may review a book, movie, or game with significant AI content; write a survey paper on some AI topic; implement an algorithm from the research literature; give an in-class talk on a research paper or papers; or write a short story with AI content based on actual AI research. Table I shows the distribution of student assignment choices for the 2009–2012 academic years. Approximately 2% of the students to whom I’ve offered these choices have mentioned considering taking an exam. None have actually taken an exam since these other options became available. All of the options have been chosen, but the book and movie reviews are by far the most popular choice, due in part to the fact that the full requirements are buried in a depth-3 web page, and students often don’t click through. They think that this is the easy option, until I ask them to find the research papers to discuss the state of the art for the AI topic of interest in the book or movie. By then, they are usually committed to their proposed review, and follow through. This article will discuss the advantages of the reviewing option, and what we all bring to the process.