   Organic chemistry education is one of the youngest research areas among all chemistry related research efforts, and its published scholarly work has become vibrant and diverse over the last 15 years. Research on problem-solving behavior, students' use of the arrow-pushing formalism, the investigation of students' conceptual knowledge and their cognitive skills have shaped our understanding of college students' understanding in organic chemistry classes. This review provides an overview of research efforts focusing on student's perspectives and summarizes the main results and pending questions that may guide subsequent research activities. Only one-tenth of an iceberg's volume is above the water; the rest is beneath the surface. You cannot judge the shape or size of the underwater portion by looking at the portion above the surface. To get the whole picture, you have to consider the deeper level or what you can infer from the surface. This analogy of an iceberg could represent the nature of organic chemistry taught in a classroom context (Fig. 1). As Kozma and Russell (1997) stated: “Much of what is chemistry exists at a molecular level and is not accessible to direct perception” (Kozma and Russell, 1997, p. 949). Thus, we build models and concepts about phenomena, like acid–base theories, and use a large catalog of conventions to draw or visualize compounds. By writing a simple molecule like H2O, multiple pieces of chemical information are related to a short sequence of letters and numbers: drawing those pieces two dimensionally conveys the geometry. Additionally, relating electronegativity to the atoms can explain dipolar properties and the hydrogen bonding effect. Hence a large part of the scientific practice in an organic chemistry classroom takes place by using pictorial representations that convey deeper meanings. Small structural changes at a molecular structure can entirely alter the mechanism of a chemical reaction, such as substitution reactions at a tert-butylalcohol and ethanol. Since the ability to make inferences from the surface or structural level is crucial in organic chemistry, the emergent questions ask how students learn to make these deep level connections and what problems they encounter when interpreting chemical representations, proposing mechanisms, or making structure–reactivity judgments. As Goodwin (2008) states, “By deciding which of these concepts apply to the compounds (or intermediates) of a particular transformation, it is often possible to explain, or even to predict, facts about the outcome, mechanism, and rates of the transformation, even when that transformation has never been encountered before” (Goodwin, 2008, p. 126). Understanding the embedded basic concepts in organic chemistry and using this knowledge as a source of prediction are huge challenges for students. Students' sense-making processes at the symbolic level became the emergent topic in the organic chemistry research community over the last 15 years. This review aims at providing an overview of what is known from current, student-centered research about the nature of college students' understanding in organic chemistry with an emphasis on problems encountered in traditional organic chemistry classes. Thus, the tip of the iceberg highlighted in this review primarily refers to students' understanding of symbolic representations, such as structural formulae and less to macroscopic entities that are more important in laboratory classes. Four highly interrelated topics central to teaching and learning organic chemistry are at the focus of this review: cognitive skills, problem-solving, conceptual knowledge, and epistemological development. Reviewing the literature of the last 15 years with regard to these main research areas had been difficult, as some studies examined various facets. The organization of the review should thus not be taken as definitive. Teaching initiatives, laboratory studies and curriculum improvements are not discussed in this overview, but teaching implications and an outline of pending research questions are given at the end of each section.