This article explores some of the synergetic relationships between research and teaching which can help shape geography undergraduate students' understandings of research. Through the experience of investigating students' attitudes towards, and engagement with, satellite navigation technologies, it considers ways in which learning can be achieved through dialogic processes in teaching and research. It presents an example of active student engagement with academic research praxis in a co-learning setting in which research is encountered and experienced as exploration of the new, processes of enquiry and ultimately, tangible research products. The practice reported in this article offers some ideas of ways in which staff and students can operate together to develop a creative, vibrant, learning community operating at the interface of teaching and research. On the one hand, it demonstrates ways in which learning about research can be achieved in a “live setting” and environment of co-learning (Le Heron, Baker, & McEwen,2006). On the other hand, it illustrates the potential for the use of mobile technologies in learning through the exploration of engagements with GPS-based satellite navigation (Sat Nav) technologies. Also, it reveals how new pedagogic spaces can be created in which students can engage with research cultures (Walkington et al., 2011). The case study is situated in the context of the synergetic relationships between research and teaching as being dynamic and subject content propelled. As such, it shows how research can be experienced as a process of enquiry and product (Brew, 1999). It offers an alternative approach to enhance the student learning experience through linking teaching and research in ways which are mutually beneficial to co-learners and builds on recent work by Harris and Tweed (2010), Tweed and Boast (2011), Walkington et al. (2011) and others in which teaching and research links have been extended through curriculum development and innovative praxis in forging co-learning contexts. The article also reflects on teaching as transmission about what is knownand exploration of the new (Brew, 1999, 2006; Dexter & Seden, 2012; Kinchin & Hay, 2007). It presents the relationships between teaching and research as being fundamentally iterative and dialogic and shows how processes in the discovery of new knowledge and creative learning can evolve opportunistically and organically when encouraged to do so in an environment of co-learning and supportive learning space. The study also reveals an alternative way of including mobile technologies in a learning context. Rather than focusing on the practical uses of GPS-based technologies in the field and classroom (e.g. Jarvis, Dickie, & Brown, 2013; Menking & Stewart, 2007; Welsh, Machline, Parks, Whalley, & France, 2013) which predominate in the existing literature, it explores students' attitudes towards, and engagements with, them. It shows how, in an environment of co-learning, the project facilitated the creation of new knowledge about the impacts of these GPS-based navigation technologies on wayfinding, spatial awareness and graphicacy, and encouraged critical reflection on the interactions between human and non-human objects such as Sat Nav. Although it has been suggested that finding new ways for students and staff to work together may present a challenge to academics (Tweed & Boast, 2011), this article maintains that it should also be thought of as an opportunity to reflect about, re-think and re-frame some elements of current practice at the intersection of teaching, research and learning. The study reported here contributes to current dialogue by presenting an example of how teaching and research connections can be made during a process of departmental change which has, in effect, grown a learning community of staff and students through their explorations of engagement with technologies of navigation.