There is currently a substantial body of research on second language (L2) learning and this body of knowledge is constantly growing. There are also many attempts in most teacher education programs around the world to inform practicing and prospective L2 teachers about second language acquisition (SLA) research and its findings. However, an important question in this context has been to what extent SLA research has been able to influence L2 teaching. There is extensive discussion and debate among SLA researchers about the applicability of L2 research to language teaching. However, there is little empirical research in this area. This research was conducted to shed some light on this issue by examining how English language teachers perceive the relationship between SLA research and language teaching and to what extent they believe the findings of SLA is useful and relevant for L2 pedagogy. Data were collected from 201 teachers of English as a second language (ESL) and English as a foreign language (EFL) by means of a written questionnaire. Analyses of data revealed that most teachers believed that knowing about SLA research is useful and that it can improve L2 teaching. However, a high percentage indicated that the knowledge they gain from teaching experience is more relevant to their teaching practices than the knowledge they gain from research. The majority indicated that they have easy access to research materials, but very few stated that they read research articles, with the most common reasons being lack of time, difficulty of research articles, and lack of interest. The article concludes with discussion and suggestions about how to improve the perceived gap between L2 research and pedagogy. There has been a long-standing debate on the relationship between research and practice not only in the general educational literature but also in many other practice-oriented disciplines such as business, medicine, law, etc. This debate has often been carried out in the form of questions related to the interaction between research and professional practice as well as how and what practitioners learn from research or researchers learn from practitioners. The perceived need of the relationship between research and practice has also led to the promotion of what has been called ‘evidence-based practice’ (practice which is based on systematic research evidence) in places such as the UK and USA and in different professional disciplines including education (Heilbronn, 2001, 2008). These movements have also influenced the field of applied linguistics, and in particular second and foreign language pedagogy, leading to extensive debates and discussions about the role and applicability of second language acquisition (SLA) research in second language (L2) teaching. Although, SLA research and teaching can be connected, this relationship is not an easy one. A fundamental question that has often been raised in this context relates to the utility of such research for classroom teaching. Some researchers have argued that one of the key rationales for conducting SLA research is to improve second language teaching (LarsenFreeman, 1998; Larsen-Freeman & Long, 1991; Pica, 2005). Others, however, have been concerned about the extent to which such research has actually influenced language teaching (e.g. Block, 2000; Crookes, 1993, Klein, 1998; for a recent debate among SLA scholars, see also TESOL Quarterly 41(2) from 2007). Many SLA researchers have argued that the relationship between L2 research and pedagogy is problematic. This has been attributed not only to the limitations of SLA research but also to the different goals and objectives of L2 research and pedagogy. The earliest warning about the applicability of SLA research to L2 teaching was raised in the late 1970s and early 1980s by researchers such as Tarone et al. (1976) and Hatch (1978), who suggested caution when interpreting and applying SLA research results in language pedagogy. Tarone et al (1976), for example, warned against making ‘hasty pedagogical applications’ of SLA research (1976, p. 29). At that time, these researchers argued that SLA research is limited in many ways, including its scope and methodology. Hatch (1978) also warned against attempting to apply research findings to language pedagogy. Lightbown (1985), in her article Great expectations: Second language acquisition research and classroom teaching, argued that although many studies in SLA are useful for language teaching, we need to be cautious about the extent to which such research can tell teachers what to do. She argued that ‘second language research does not tell teachers what to teach, and what it says about how to teach they had already figured out’ (p. 182). Such concerns have also been expressed more recently by researchers such as Block (2000), Crookes (1997a, 1993, 1998), Ellis (1997a 1997b, 2001), and Klein (1998), all of whom argued that although SLA research has made much progress, there is little that teachers can gain from it in terms of practical ideas. Ellis (1997b, 2001) argued that important progress has been made in SLA, but ‘much of the research is no longer directly concerned with pedagogic issues’ (2001, p. 45). He pointed out that many of the issues Downloaded from ltr.sagepub.com at WESLEYAN UNIV on May 11, 2015 Nassaji 339 that SLA researchers examine ‘have their origins in bodies of knowledge which, arguably, have no or little relevance to language pedagogy’ (1997b, p. 6). He argued that there are currently many studies whose aim is to test particular linguistic theories such as the Universal Grammar, whose results are not translatable to what teachers actually need in their everyday teaching because most of the time such research is conducted in contexts that are different from the actual context in which language is taught. Researchers such as Block and Klein have expressed stronger concerns. Block (2000) pointed out that ‘much of what is done under the rubric of SLA is not particularly relevant to language teachers and is not really applicable to the day-to-day language teaching and learning which goes in the classroom’ (p. 130). He maintained that the issues that SLA publications examine are not often of particular interest to language teachers. Klein (1998) stated, ‘During the last 25 years, second language acquisition (SLA) research has made considerable progress, but it is still far from proving a solid basis for foreign language teaching, or from a general theory of SLA’ (p. 527).