Action research, particularly done by teachers, has had a contentious, decades-long history. As a form of social inquiry, action research has been designed to make it easier for members of social groups to create social change within their communities. Rather than conducting research that focuses on an outcome, action researchers focus on the process of change. Community members are positioned as learners, making productive and just decisions (Glassman, Erdem, & Bartholomew, 2012). Nevertheless, despite the potential of action research to impact schools and school communities in positive ways, teacher research has often been marginalized within the academy and social sciences. These are trying times for teacher research. Fewer decisions are being left to teachers, and “scientifically-based research” is having a greater influence on policy (Cochran-Smith & Lytle,2009). Quality teacher research that illuminates community voice and works to create social change is necessary. The following research study examines how, as an urban teacher, I learned with my 8th grade Language Arts students at a Title I school the ways in which schools can empower students to engage in praxis, reflect, and act upon the world in order to transform it (Freire, 1970), through the implementation of critical inquiry. Drawing on sociocultural theory, critical literacy and interpretive research, this study privileges students’ voices through their schoolwork and research. By illuminating students’ voices, this research seeks to clarify: (a) how school disempowers students, (b) how school empowers students, and (c) how urban teachers can empower students to engage in praxis through a consistent student-centered, justice-oriented, and action-based pedagogy. In the fall semester of 2009, my students and I engaged in an academic unit focused on the guiding question, “How are you empowered and disempowered by school?” Through this unit we sought to understand the concept of empowerment in schools. More specifically, we wanted to know how one's empowerment is affected by the policies and practices within an urban Title I school, particularly one that had been subjected to the presumed panacea of standardized curricula (Leistyna, 2007) and the violence of high-stakes testing (Janesick, 2007). I introduced the idea of empowerment to my students and asked for their immediate thoughts. Working definitions of “having power”, “being powerful”, and “having power over yourself and others” quickly emerged. Building on the students’ ideas, I then introduced four components of empowerment in school from Ira Shor (1992) and Geneva Gay (2000): academic competence, personal confidence, a habit of inquiry, and a willingness to act. This provided us a shared understanding of empowerment. This unit provided the impetus for my students to critique school policies of their choice (e.g., mandated curricula, homework, and the dress code) and clearly identify what empowerment in school wasn’t. While this critical research practiced by my students was engaging, I felt as though the students were still “doing school” and going through the motions of an assignment. I couldn't yet determine if their research was producing learning that empowered them to act differently upon the world (Morrell et al., 2013). It wasn't until the spring semester of 2010 when my students responded to the earthquake in Haiti and through a critical unit titled “What is fair pay?” that my students engaged in praxis more deeply and began to exhibit what empowerment in school was. This unit provided the impetus for my students to critique school policies of their choice (e.g., mandated curricula, homework, and the dress code) and clearly identify what empowerment in school wasn't.