Although research and teaching have often been regarded as complementary in enhancing the quality of student learning, little previous research has explored the conflicts associated with linking the two activities. This paper aims to examine specific issues arising within the environmental building disciplines at a UK university, and to explore strategies for achieving optimal research-teaching links. The results reveal that research-teaching linkages within these disciplines were interrelated and dynamic, but could be controversial, evidenced in coexisting multifaceted conflicts and complementarities. The research pointed towards a number of potential strategies for achieving optimal research-teaching linkages. In particular, it is critical to link research and teaching systematically right across an entire educational programme to address the progressive nature of learning and to maximise the potential of the research-teaching dynamic. Linking research and teaching is increasingly regarded as an effective approach to enhancing the quality of student learning in higher education (Brown & McCartney, 1998; Jenkins, Healey, & Zetter, 2007). A House of Commons (2009, p. 77) report identifies that the relationship between research and teaching: highlights a serious and fundamental question about the nature of a ‘university education’, the distribution of excellence and the relative roles of teaching, research and scholarship in supporting student learning, not least in terms of developing students’ professional and learning skills. While research and teaching are often considered complementary, insufficient attention in the literature has been paid to the conflicts associated with linking the two activities. Previous research has examined some of the ‘disadvantages’ and ‘barriers’ of the research-teaching nexus (Buckley, 2011; Healey, Jordan, Pell, & Short, 2010, respectively). However, the specific conflicts of linking research and teaching in a disciplinary context have seldom been made explicit, which risks rendering the approach to linking research and teaching less effective. The potentially controversial relationship between research and teaching is compounded by profound differences that exist across contexts of learning. Griffiths (2004) suggested that differences exist about the nature of the knowledge base, the drivers behind discipline development, the processes governing curriculum design, the dominant methods of teaching and assessment and the way academic staff are recruited. This suggests that the unique features of particular disciplines (such as the built environment and other practice-oriented fields) should be considered when bringing together knowledge production and student learning. For example, Durning and Jenkins (2005) demonstrated the importance of taking into account the distinct features of the research-teaching relationship in the built environment disciplines when considering departmental policies and national funding. Other researchers argued that student learning can be supported through enhanced links between research and teaching in specific built environment disciplines, such as architecture (Roberts, 2007) and building/surveying (Deakin, 2006). However, few studies have investigated the context, conflict and complementarity of linking research and teaching in environmental building which is emerging as an important area of the built environment disciplines. This gap in knowledge is significant as the concept of environmental building has been promoted worldwide as a way of reducing the negative impacts of building on human health and the environment (Cheng, Pouffray, Svenningsen, & Callaway, 2008). Therefore, this paper aims to examine the conflicts and complementarities of linking research and teaching arising in the delivering environmental building education, noting how optimal research-teaching links might be achieved. The meanings of the concepts ‘research’ and ‘teaching’ have long been contested. In this paper, the term ‘research’ denotes discipline-specific research by staff and ‘teaching’ indicates undergraduate teaching specifically. In addition, the terms used to classify or describe the research-teaching nexus vary, albeit with subtle differences and, yet, often used interchangeably. A typical classification of the research-teaching nexus was offered by Griffiths (2004), which includes four approaches: Research-led teaching – the curriculum is structured around subject content, based on the research interest of teaching staff; students are taught about research findings (the lecturer’s own and those of other researchers); Research-oriented teaching – the curriculum places as much understanding on the processes by which knowledge is produced as on the outcomes; students are taught about research processes and methods; Research-based teaching – the curriculum is based around inquiry-based activities, rather than acquisition of content; the division of roles between teacher and student is minimised; and Research-informed teaching – teaching that draws consciously on systematic inquiry into the process of teaching and learning (pedagogic research). This model was extended further by Healey (2005), who mapped pedagogic approaches against the research-teaching nexus according to the students’ roles as participants or audience and emphasis on research content or processes. Healey replaced ‘research-informed teaching’ with a new approach, ‘research-tutored’, whereby students engage in discussions around research issues. However, such classifications may lead to a partial or limited understanding of the research-teaching nexus; in reality, more than one type of research-teaching linkage may coexist and they frequently overlap. Another difficulty with these models is that some academics have difficulties in making a clear distinction between teaching and research (e.g. Zamorski, 2002). They may be considered as separate activities, as part of the same process linked through learning, or mutually enriching (Brew, 2003). Students’ perceptions of the research-teaching links are varied; whilst they appreciate the expertise that research-active teachers bring, they are also aware that research time may be in conflict with teaching time (Healey, 2005). In addition, these approaches need to be embedded in the context of the discipline for their effective use. Nevertheless, these different approaches to linking research and teaching provide an important component of curriculum design. The existing models have useful implications for pedagogic research and development, and can be used to structure the process of analysis of the research-teaching nexus within a discipline, and therefore were used for the study reported here.