Although there is abundant experimental metamemory research on the relation between students’ monitoring, regulation of learning, and learning outcomes, relatively little of this work has influenced educational research and practice. Metamemory research, traditionally based on experimental paradigms from cognitive psychology, can potentially contribute to designing and improving educational interventions that foster self-monitoring and self-regulation in children, adolescents, and young adult learners. We describe the metamemory paradigm, and provide a short overview of the insights it has generated with regard to improving metacognitive skills in these groups of learners. Moreover, we summarize the contributions to this special issue on translating insights from cognitive psychology research on metamemory to educational research and practice, and describe possible themes and directions for future research that could further bridge the gap between fundamental and more applied research on metacognition, so as to design effective educational interventions. Imagine a fifth grade student, studying a 1000 word long expository text on Antarctica in class. While doing so, various cognitive processes are simultaneously in action in the students’ mind, such as deciphering the words, making sense of them within the context of a sentence, and connecting the meaning of sentences to information in long-term memory. To enable this, the student occasionally pauses while reading, looks back in the text to reread pieces of it, estimates whether she has understood the information, and decides when to continue with a novel text segment. These metacognitive processes are vital for adequate comprehension of the text, and are exercised with varying success by different students. Not only in text comprehension, but also in learning of procedural tasks (e.g., mathematics) and verbal learning tasks (e.g., foreign vocabulary learning) do such metacognitive processes play a role. A Web of Knowledge search showed that interest in metacognition as a research subject has grown disproportionately over the last decade. The number of articles containing the topic “metacog” increased with 98% (from 453 articles in the last decade of the 20th century to 898 in the first decade of the 21st century, excluding clinical psychology articles), whereas for instance the total number of articles in the subject area Education and Educational Research in general has grown by ‘only’ 47% during that time (from 149,605 to 219,711 articles). A lot of experimental laboratory research on the nature and development of metacognitive processes in relation to learning, in particular on the accuracy of self-monitoring and how that impacts self-regulation of study, has been conducted in cognitive psychology. Relatively little is known about how to foster self-monitoring and self-regulation through instructional interventions in classrooms. The goal of this special issue on self-monitoring and self-regulation is to provide a set of state-of-the-art innovative empirical studies, in which insights from the above mentioned studies from cognitive psychology inspired the development of instructional interventions to improve self-monitoring and self-regulation in educational contexts. These are studied with a variety of tasks, domains, and learners. Four studies and two commentaries are reported. The four empirical studies encompassed various text-based learning tasks in different domains, such as studying key terms from introductory psychology textbooks (Dunlosky & Rawson, 2012), answering general information questions (Metcalfe & Finn, 2012), studying hypertexts on biology (Pieschl, Stahl, Murray, & Bromme, 2012), and studying expository science texts (Redford, Thiede, Wiley, & Griffin, 2012). Moreover, students’ developmental level ranged from elementary school third grade children to college undergraduates. The two commentaries by Efklides (2012) and Koriat (2012)provide a critical discussion of the findings and indicate thematic and methodological directions for future research. This introduction will provide a short historic overview of research on metacognitive processes in school-age children and young adults, detailing some of the general conclusions that can be drawn based on these studies. We will then try to place the contributions of the special issue within this theoretical framework, and provide a number of directions for future research. To foreshadow, the abilities of young students to judge their memory and comprehension of learning material seem to be better than originally thought. When metacognitive instruction takes into account a number of design principles, accuracy of metacognitive processes in children can equal that of adults.