School systems have access to more data than ever before, but most teachers and school leaders lack the skills to use the data for student and school improvement. Current attempts to use data have lacked depth and have been more focused on accountability and meeting state and federal requirements than on systematically investigating the factors that support and hinder the teaching and learning process. As a result, the potential benefits of data usage have not been realized. This commentary examines the critical issues facing school leaders concerning data-informed decision-making based on existing research and firsthand experience working with school principals. Individuals in many professions routinely use data as a basis for assessing progress and making quality decisions. For example, data play an essential role in medical diagnosis and treatment, engineering, and automobile manufacturing. Educators often report that we cannot rely on data to solve the challenges students face in the learning process, because in fact students are too complex (Wayman & Stringfield, 2006). I acknowledge the complexity of the teaching and learning process, but I maintain that using data appropriately can inform and improve the process. Of course, in the age of the No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB), the phrase “data-informed decision-making” has become part of the lexicon of the American educator. The importance of using data is now taken for granted as an essential component of any educational improvement process. School district superintendents consistently report data use as the most important strategy for addressing NCLB, state accountability systems, and the constant pressure to improve student achievement (Coburn & Talbert, 2006; Means, 2009). The use of data as a tool to drive school improvement is not a new phenomenon. Earlier reform movements, such as A Nation at Risk in the 1980s (Gordon, 2006) and Goals 2000 in the 1990s (Zhao, 2009), also stressed the importance of using data in making educational decisions and assessing educational progress. However, due to both technological advances and the mandates of NCLB, there is more data available now than ever before, and the emphasis placed on data has grown. One particular type of data, student achievement data in the form of high-stakes standardized tests, has become particularly important. While multiple measures are advocated, student achievement scores remain a primary indicator of student, teacher, principal, school, and district effectiveness (Cravens, Chen, Porter, Elliott, & Carson, 2009; John Murray The Professional Educator Leigh, 2010). Furthermore, student performance on standardized tests also influences real estate values and the overall vitality of a community (Nguyen-Hoang & Yinger, 2011). The use of data, particularly if only one type is being used, is not a panacea for school improvement. As Means’ (2009) national study found, school systems have access to more data than ever before, but most teachers and school leaders lack the skills to use the data for student and school improvement. Current attempts to use data have lacked depth and have been more focused on accountability and meeting state and federal requirements than on systematically investigating the factors that support and hinder the teaching and learning process. As a result, the potential benefits of data usage have not been realized. We know that teachers, school leadership, curriculum, and community involvement all influence student learning. Properly utilized, data can help educators better understand how these dimensions influence student achievement in a particular context. Multiple types of data should be used, and data should become a mechanism to connect student performance with curriculum, instruction, remediation, acceleration, teacher professional development, and the allocation of fiscal and human resources for school and district improvement (Campbell & Levin, 2009). A body of research is emerging on data use in schools. Much of the research to date has dealt with specific areas of schools, such as teachers (Lachat & Smith, 2005; Schildkamp & Kuiper, 2010), principals (Supovitz & Klein, 2003; Wayman, Cho, & Johnston, 2007), and the central office (Honig & Coburn, 2008; Moll, 2009). Additionally, a growing research base is available to help teachers understand educational data use systemically. Scholars are examining ways to use data to align, integrate, and support various components of a school district so that the entire district is a more coherent, data-using organization. Knowledge from these studies suggests that integrated, districtwide data use can be better accomplished by aligning vision, practice, and data (Supovitz & Klein, 2003; Wohlstetter, Datnow, & Park, 2008), focusing on leadership at multiple levels (Halverson, Prichett, Grigg, & Thomas, 2005; Mandinach, Honey, Light, & Brunner, 2008), efficiently integrating technology (Wayman, Conoly, Gasko, & Stringfield, 2008), and emphasizing professional development (Datnow, Park, & Wohlstetter, 2007). Still, there is much to learn about how school districts may make better use of data. For example, we still need to determine the essential components involved in school leaders efficiently and effectively accessing, generating, managing, interpreting, and acting on data. In this commentary, I examine the critical issues facing school leaders concerning data-informed decision-making based on existing research and my experience working with principals, central office personnel, and state department of education personnel in a southeast state. Clarifying the Role of Data The presence of common understandings about educational goals and practices is an important aspect of organizational improvement. The function and role of data in the school improvement process is often poorly defined, leading schools and school leaders to be confused about how and when to use specific types of data. As Wayman and Springfield Critical Issues Facing School Leaders Volume 38, No. 1 • Spring, 2014 (2006) have argued, a common understanding of the role of data is critical if it is to be used to improve schools and student achievement. There are several important elements involved in clarifying the role of data. It is first important to be clear about whether decisions will be data-driven, data-based, or datainformed. I support the argument advanced by Shen and Cooley (2008) that data should inform rather than drive decisions. Data can serve as an important element in effective decision-making, but educators should not entirely base their decisions on data. Education is a human enterprise involving children, and data fail to give educators all of the information they need to help children learn. Second, it is important to take a systemic, continuous improvement approach to data analysis. Educators should gather and analyze data to gain a better understanding of the system that is producing the current results in a school or district. Then they can use the data to continuously improve the system and, ultimately, enhance student learning. By “system” I mean all the processes and procedures that influence student learning. Systems thinking (Senge, Cambron-McCabe, Lucas, & Kleiner, 2000) is about viewing the whole and the interrelationships of the parts of the whole to each other. From a systems thinking perspective, most differences in student performance are due to the system, not the individual student. In other words, it is important to look not only at the material presented but also the ways in which it is presented. Third, data collection and analysis must be firmly connected to guiding questions posed and answered by teachers and other school leaders. Teachers and other school leaders must specify what they want to know about their school and students, and must know why the information is needed. In addition, they must determine what types of data they need to answer their questions. By keeping the focus on guiding questions developed and answered by school staff and administrators, data collection and analysis has a clear purpose. After all, “data, alone, are not evidence of anything until users of the data bring concepts, criteria, theories of action, and interpretive frames of reference to the task of making sense of the data” (Knapp, Swinnerton, & Copland, 2006, p. 10). Several studies have confirmed that when school staff work together to develop guiding questions and select data collection approaches, they have a better understanding of the role of data, and they remain more focused on the connection of different types of data to student achievement (Langley, Moen, Nolan, Nolan, Norman, & Provost, 2009; Wayman, Cho, & Richards, 2010). 