As teacher educators, we explored the impact of a range of teaching approaches to encourage the development of critically reflective thinking (CRT) in teacher candidates. Our study, the second in a series of three investigations, examined differences in two preservice secondary teachers’ responses to CRT as part of a teacher licensure program. We discuss the influence of content area conventions and views on curriculum when preservice teachers are exposed to tools that promote CRT. Our study includes data analyses of the experiences of preservice teachers’ work in urban student-teaching classrooms, along with the university coursework in a teacher preparation program. Our research questions examine the perspectives of two preservice teachers and address the following: On completion of a year-long teacher preparation program focused on encouraging CRT, what are the differences between two preservice teachers in their critically reflective thinking as evidenced by their reflections on teaching? In what ways do the perspectives differ between two content area teachers? And after a first year of teaching, what are these same teachers’ CRT perspectives? Our study is designed to produce usable knowledge—that is, findings that other teacher educators should consider in the design and implementation of field-based experiences and curriculum development for preservice teachers working with diverse student populations. Theoretical Framework Students’ success in school hinges in part on the teachers’ views of children’s language, race, gender, and socioeconomic status (Comber & Simpson, 2001). These differences may, for teachers newly faced with a diverse group of students, evoke notions of deficit or deficiency (Milner, 2008). If teachers adopt deficit views of students’ cultures and languages, they strive to “fix” students they see as the “problem,” rather than the curriculum, society, or school policies that result in segregated classrooms and exclusion from success in school (Banks, 2002; Hollins & Guzman, 2005; Sleeter & Grant, 1999). Likewise, deficit thinking adopts a “blame the victim” stance that can prevent students in urban contexts from reaching their full potential, as teachers may not adequately challenge students of diversity (Milner, 2008; 2010). In this study, CRT is explored to examine the impact of pedagogical and field-based practices that challenge deficit thinking, and to question assumptions. Mary Burbank, Laurie Ramirez, & Alisa Bates The Professional Educator While CRT typically prompts examinations of how teachers reflect on question identification and their understandings for problem solving, researchers have conceptualized CRT in a variety of ways (Loughran, 2002; Rodgers, 2002; Shandomo, 2010). Similar to what some researchers call “critical reflection,” CRT involves problem identification or framing, reflection on the basis of that identification (perhaps historical, social, or cultural in nature), and action planning to address the perceived problem (Brookfield, 1995; Shandomo, 2010). The CRT process is complex in nature, requiring introspection about how one’s beliefs, assumptions, and experiences influence perceptions of self and the social world (Shandomo, 2010). Many preservice teachers enter their education programs with unexamined beliefs and assumptions of students, as well as problematic conceptions of the role of schools in society; yet it is imperative that educators develop stances that allow them to view “problems” from multiple perspectives and actively question assumptions, routines, practices, and standing explanations that are taken for granted (Carrington & Selva, 2010; Loughran, 2002). That is, teacher educators must help preservice teachers identify why a problem exists and examine the factors that have influenced its identification. Like problem framing, seeking solutions requires a reflective process from educators that extends beyond strategy implementation. Educators must consider the factors that influence why problems occur, examine why problems are identified as significant, and develop strategies for responding that reflect an open-mindedness that is informed both by other educators and theories of practice (Dewey, 1933). The intensity and mindfulness of reflective thinking extends beyond problem solving in terms of depth and focus (Dewey, 1933), requiring what Larrivee (2008) suggests is a complete paradigm shift from “viewing problems as needing to be dealt with to seeing them as opportunities for self-reflection and the emergence of new possibilities” (p. 101). Van Manen (1977) defined critical reflection as using criteria of justice and equity to consider the political, moral, and ethical consequences of teaching practice. Larrivee (2008) similarly suggests that critical reflection is an opportunity for teachers to “reflect on the moral and ethical implications and consequences of their classroom practices” (p. 90), a process that requires examination of how one’s personal and professional belief systems might impact students and their learning For teacher educators, efforts intended to promote critically reflective practice have been limited in terms of the impact on teachers’ thinking. For example, case analyses and discussions, reflective journaling, and action research provide tools for staging reflective thought (Carrington & Selva, 2010; Gore & Zeichner, 1991; cf. Harrington, Quinn-Leering, & Hodson, 1996; Leland, Harste, & Youssef, 1997; cf. Moje & Wade, 1997; Nolan, 2008; Risko, Roskos, & Vukelich, 1999; Wade, Fauske, & Thompson, 2008). However, findings have indicated that the degree to which reflective thinking takes place by teachers is often limited. Like others, we assumed a combination of approaches to teaching critically reflective thinking in connection with field experiences would provide support for the development of CRT and teaching practices. We hoped adopting a contextual approach would enable our preservice teachers to engage in CRT in meaningful ways by connecting coursework and fieldwork (Shandomo, 2010). Specifically, we included opportunities for problem-framing activities, critical analyses of literature through inperson and online discussions using scenario prompts, and investigations into real-world teaching experiences coupled with action research projects. Critically Reflective Thinking in Urban Teacher Education Volume 36, No. 2 • Fall, 2012 Teacher Development and CRT The implementation of CRT and the manifestations of practice within teacher education programs is not a simple effort infused with fool-proof strategies or tools. An historical review of curricular and field-based trends in teacher education illustrates how attention to how crucial reflection on topics such as diversity and multiculturalism have developed in nuanced ways over time, reflecting changes in content and course-related experiences (Castro, 2010). While these developmental dimensions of program changes document the evolution of depth in program delivery, focus, and intent, the outcomes for preservice teachers in their daily practices have varied considerably. In his article on analyses of documented research on approaches to increasing preservice teachers’ understandings of cultural diversity in teacher education during the past 30 years, Castro delineates the success with which programs have addressed student teachers’ engagement and understanding of cultural diversity. This in-depth review of previous research challenges teacher educators to consider how various program-based pedagogies, curricula, and field experience move teacher thinking beyond more superficial understandings of diversity. While an increased awareness of the complexity of multicultural understandings have been fostered among preservice teachers through a range of efforts, the results for most preservice teachers have been rather narrow (Castro, 2010). Although iterations in course- and field-based experiences that included direct work within communities, personal reflections, and examinations of beliefs and backgrounds have been infused within teacher education programs over time, the impact has not been significant. More substantive change has occurred, however, within programs that tap into what Castro describes as a greater awareness of and acceptance of diverse communities. He cites these changes in groups he identifies as among the “millennial” generation of students. He reports that while this group tends to be more interactive and engaged within diverse communities, deep understandings of diversity are still quite limited. In addition to maintaining relatively simplistic views of diversity, analyses of these research findings indicate a lack of critical consciousness regarding fundamental beliefs about diversity. Some might argue that more superficial beliefs and teaching practices among preservice teachers are simply a feature of teacher development (Dreyfus & Dreyfus, 1986; Zeichner, 1992). That is, teacher development takes place along a continuum where the early stages of learning to teach are often based upon gaining general knowledge about teachers’ work (Ball & Cohen, 1999; Putnam & Borko, 2000; Rosenholtz, 1989). With time, researchers argue, the “sensemaking” (Coburn, 2001; 2004) takes place among educators based upon interactions between the knowledge about teaching and the knowledge gained through experience. A give-and-take between these levels of knowledge is refined over time into the praxis within a teacher’s repertoire. In addition, to influence of general growth in learning to teach, others argue that the conventions of content areas may also lead teachers to adopt teaching practices and beliefs about student learning that align with more commonplace practices in their content areas regarding the ways in which curriculum and instruction are typically approached, ultimately socializing teacher behaviors in K–12 classrooms (Gossman, 2008; Neumann, Parry, & Becher, 2002). Our study is designed to foster a greater understanding of the impact of critical reflective teaching for two content area teachers, with an examination of similarities and differences regarding their perspectives on teaching as it relates to diversity. We address direct efforts using critical reflective Mary Burbank, Laurie Ramirez, & Alisa Bates The Professional Educator teaching designed to move beliefs and attitudes to the more advanced developmental levels cited by Castro (2010). The literature is replete with arguments for practices in teacher education that examine issues of power, privilege, and multicultural awareness (Sleeter, 2001; Thompson, 2003). Current research advances teacher educators’ understandings of diversity through examinations of content area preparation that explore social justice and equity in ways that are explicit and defined (Adair, 2008). Through emphases that embed critically reflective thinking and practice within content area discussions, our study examines the underpinnings of content area curriculum and traditional student– teacher roles and their impact on teachers’ daily activities. Without deliberate efforts to broaden our understanding of the influence of content area conventions on curricular and instructional decision making, efforts to address equity and access through CRT become generic, superficial, and predictably formulaic. We explore how content area preparation informs CRT, including teachers’ receptivity and their ability to implement CRT, highlighting the influence of content area curriculum and instruction on CRT thinking. 