An abundance of research confirms preservice teachers are unprepared to work with diverse populations. This article describes an education program’s efforts to support diversity initiatives and provide information and hands-on training to prepare teacher candidates for future work with the diversity they will encounter. Explanations of programs, coursework, professional development, and current and supportive literature are included. Introduction Imagine a world where all teachers are comfortable working with all students. They are prepared to meet the needs of every child based on academic abilities, physical and emotional constraints, and cultural, religious and domestic backgrounds. Imagine a world where classrooms are equipped with the necessities that provide for the ultimate learning experience for all children. They are filled with books from all cultures, in many languages; pictures representative of all people; manipulative materials to fit all hands; and decorations and wall art that is inviting to every individual. Imagine a world where all children can go to school unafraid, excited, and knowing they will be treated equally. Imagine a world where parents feel comfortable entering their child’s school, talking to their child’s teachers, and being involved in the education of the whole. We call ourselves simply The Diversity Committee for our University’s School of Education. While we cannot expect to make the description above a reality, we can and have worked toward that vision in our own smaller community. Our mission is to 1) cultivate and continuously improve a curriculum that will engage all faculty members as diversity responsive professionals, 2) pre-pare all teacher candidates to function effectively in diverse classrooms, and 3) develop and nurture a relationship with partner schools and other university education programs that strive to promote diversity awareness and education. Sonia Nieto (2006) shares a list of qualities (beyond those research reveals) that she believes good teachers should possess. They are 1) “a sense of mission,” 2) “solidarity with, and empathy for, their students,” 3) “the courage to challenge main-stream knowledge,” 4) “improvisation,” and 5) “a passion for social justice” (p. 463). Wong et al. (2007) state “teacher quality must be defined beyond the parameters of content knowledge to include a teacher’s ability to create optimal learning environments for students marginalized by the system because of their primary language, race/ethnicity, social class, culture, gender, and ability” (p. 10). Greta Freeman, Marilyn Izzard, Rebecca Faulkner & Jim Charles The Professional Educator This paper provides a general outline of our committee’s work with teacher candidates, colleagues, and PK–12 schools to promote diversity awareness and responsive teaching. It specifically breaks down best practice program initiatives we have found successful. We strive to promote quality teaching from a research standpoint: knowledge of subject matter; good communication and organizational skills; and training in educational pedagogy. Yet, we embrace those additional qualities listed by Nieto to help our teacher practitioners and professionals grow their knowledge, attitudes, and skills for working with a diverse student population. We make every effort to produce quality teachers as defined by Wong et al., to be knowledgeable in content and all-encompassing of diversity. School of Education Unit Diversity Plan Nichols and Dong (2011) make a bold statement when they say, “The majority of today’s American pre-service teachers just simply do not understand what multi-cultural education is” (p. 6). They go on to challenge education programs to “better prepare their students for teaching the multicultural student populations they will undoubtedly encounter” (p. 6). We believe, as a committee, our education unit is prepared to take this challenge. Our committee begins each academic year by updating our “unit diversity plan,” which one can access at http://www.uscupstate. edu/academics/education/default.aspx?id=2489. This plan focuses on diversity initiatives for teacher candidates, faculty, partner schools, and the unit as a whole. Nichols and Dong follow some important researchers in the area of multicultural education with their prescriptions for education programs. Ladson-Billings (2001), Gay (2002), Banks and McGee Banks (2004) and Cochran-Smith and Zeichner (2005) have all called for change and/or better preparation in multicultural teacher education. In keeping with this standard, the following list describes activities integrated into our curriculum and supported by our diversity committee and unit diversity plan. Course Assignments Each year, course instructors update a unit Excel chart detailing diversity-related content for all education program courses. We ensure inclusion of diversity related topics in the majority of our program coursework. Teacher Work Sample Diverse Learner Project As a part of the required teacher work sample portfolio implemented during the student teaching semester, preservice teachers are required to follow and work with a student from a diverse background. This can include racial, ethnic, cultural, socioeconomic, or other differences. They then report and reflect on the experience in the work sample portfolio. SEDF 483 – Organization and Management of a Diverse Classroom This course is specifically designed to detail practices supporting instruction in a diverse classroom. All teacher candidates are required to take this course the semester before student teaching. www.teachdiversity.org This website, a collaborative effort between USC Upstate and Furman University Education programs, “identifies resources for teaching and managing diversity in the classroom.” It is valuable for teacher candidates, teachers in the field, and university faculty in that it provides valuable School of Education Diversity Initiatives Volume 36, No. 1 • Spring, 2012 diversity-related resources such as lesson plans and links to other websites. This website is shared with our public school partners and “seeks to help educators prepare for the next generation to deal positively with the opportunities and challenges that diversity affords.” Field Experiences Dunn et al. (2009) advocate “faculties of education aim to ensure that all teacher candidates take part in field experiences that involve working in communities with diverse populations” (p. 553). Early field experiences and student teaching are essential parts of our programs. We have developed relationships with schools allowing us to place our teacher candidates in classrooms for observation and practice teaching. We also offer some of our courses on the K–12 school campuses. Our teacher candidates are placed in schools each semester after being admitted to the professional program. The field experience director makes certain they are placed in rural, urban, and high poverty schools for one or more of their placements. The teacher candidate population in our education program is approximately 70% Caucasian. During the senior year, our elementary education teacher candidates are placed in two very different schools for approximately 100 hours of field work: One school is predominately African American; the other is predominately of Hispanic culture. The response from the prestudent teachers is overwhelmingly positive. Diversity Conference This one-day event for student teachers from USC Upstate and other South Carolina college and university education programs is a forum for sharing ideas and activities for supporting diversity. The conference, formally called the Diversity Collaborative, brings together future teachers from various cultural backgrounds to learn from professionals in the field and one another. The event is described in detail later in this paper. 