Abstract
Current reform efforts seek to redesign teacher education in alignment with a practice-based theory, a
fundamental reconceptualization of higher education demanding a tighter alignment with K-12 school practices.
The Faculty Research Residency Model—a Department of Education Funds for the Improvement of PostSecondary
Education (FIPSE) grant supported project—draws upon practice-based theory and leverages existing
school-university partnerships to create opportunities for faculty to research practices in high need urban schools
to inform university course redesign. This study describes the faculty research residency model, reports on year
one results of the project, describes implications for refining the model, and provides recommendations to inform
others seeking to improve university coursework through school-university partnerships.
Teacher education has come under fire for not preparing teacher candidates to enact rigorous and
robust instruction, particularly to students of color or those living in poverty (Blanchett, 2006; Grant &
Gillette, 2006; Ladson-Billings, 2005). Referred to as “the problem of enactment,” teacher candidates are
frequently unable to translate theories of effective teaching and learning into practice—and thereby fail
to promote rigorous and robust student learning (Hammerness et al., 2005). Currently, there is an effort
to combat the problem of enactment by recommending a practice-based theory of teacher learning (Ball
& Forzani, 2010; Lambert, 2010) that calls for a fundamental reconceptualization of how teacher
education coursework is designed and delivered.
To address problems of enactment occurring within our school-university partnership settings and
improve the caliber of university curriculum and coursework using a practice-based approach, we
designed the Faculty Research Residency (FRR) project. The FRR Project spans 2011–13 and is funded
by a three-year Department of Education grant. The project was designed to improve teacher
education, strengthen existing school partnerships, and create new ways for university faculty to learn
in, with, and from the classroom or school context. In the FRR Project, university faculty are situated in
high-need, urban schools to: 1) engage in a research project in their discipline to better understand
and/or impact student learning; and 2) use the contextual knowledge gained from this in-depth
experience to inform teacher preparation course redesign to more effectively prepare teacher
candidates, which in turns supports our partnering network schools. University faculty also met in
monthly seminars to discuss research on practice-based theory and collaborate on research and course
redesign.
This descriptive narrative reports on data reflecting the first year of the grant. The purpose of this
study was to understand how faculty experienced and perceived the FRR project. In particular, we
wanted to understand if the FRR project facilitated faculty research in high-need schools and
contributed to curricular redesign utilizing a practice-based approach. This narrative describes the FRR
Wendy Gardiner & Diane Salmon
The Professional Educator
project and provides lessons learned from year one to inform subsequent grant cycles and increase the
likelihood that the grant will improve teaching and learning. This narrative is also intended to describe
a model and collaborative process for engaging faculty in high-need schools to improve university
coursework and respond to the pervasive problems of enactment that beginning teachers’ experience.
Conceptual Framework
Practice-Based Theory
A practice-based theory for teacher learning demands a situated approach in which theory (which
is typically generalized) is specifically linked to and embedded in the actual tasks and activities of
teaching (Ball & Forzani, 2010; Hammerness et al., 2005; Lambert, 2010). A shift to a practice-based
design in teacher learning requires that teacher educators deepen their participation within schools to
redesign university learning to explicitly explore the nexus of theory and practice (Darling-Hammond,
2010; Wang et al., 2010). The outcome of tighter integration between theory and practice is better
prepared teacher candidates who are more likely to overcome the challenges of “enactment” in
complex classroom environments and ultimately improve student learning (Hammerness et al., 2005).
Grossman and colleagues (2009) provide a framework that is assistive in thinking about redesigning
coursework and restructuring teaching to reflect a practice-based theory. Drawn from a study of how
beginning professionals best learn the core practices of their chosen profession, Grossman and
colleagues identified three key and interrelated concepts to guide university teaching: representations,
decomposition, and approximation of practice.
Representations of practice are utilized to examine and analyze the visible and invisible aspects of a
practice and help novices develop a more concrete and robust understanding of a given practice.
Representations for teacher education often include case studies, examples of student work, lesson and
unit plans, video, observation, and modeling a practice. When using representations of practice, an
important role of the instructor is to help reveal the nuances that a novice would not observe, such as
teacher thinking and decision making.
Decomposition involves breaking down a complex practice into the constituent parts.
Decomposition is used to isolate, identify, and then practice the different components of a core practice.
Decomposition provides a process for scaffolding the development of a complex practice. Then, the
practice is “recomposed” from component parts back to the whole. Examples of decomposed practice
include focusing on specific elements of lesson plans such as practicing and analyzing lesson openings
and closing; or identifying and practices different aspects of a read aloud such as reading with
expression or asking engaging questions. Over time, the fully integrated, or “recomposed,” practice
should become a routine.
Approximations provide opportunities to enact a complex teaching practice outside of the K-12
classroom context. Practice opportunities in the university setting allow novices to implement a specific
practice, such as guided reading, from start to finish without the added challenge of managing and
responding to events that occur in a classroom of children, while also receiving targeted feedback on
their performance. As such, approximations can help a novice feel more secure and steady in
implementation prior to enacting a practice with a group or classroom of children.
For teacher educators to apply a practice-based approach, they need to understand how the
practices they teach are enacted in the field settings in which their teacher candidates are placed and
understand the challenges of enactment. By developing a more contextualized and nuanced
Research Residencies
Volume 38, No. 1 • Spring, 2014
understanding, faculty are more likely to select and create the representations, decompositions, and
approximations of practice that are more likely to improve teacher candidates’ learning and foster
transfer. Yet, structural and cultural factors tend to inhibit faculty’s capacity to improve upon their
coursework.





Abstract
School systems have access to more data than ever before, but most teachers and school leaders
lack the skills to use the data for student and school improvement. Current attempts to use data have
lacked depth and have been more focused on accountability and meeting state and federal requirements
than on systematically investigating the factors that support and hinder the teaching and learning
process. As a result, the potential benefits of data usage have not been realized. This commentary
examines the critical issues facing school leaders concerning data-informed decision-making based on
existing research and firsthand experience working with school principals.
Individuals in many professions routinely use data as a basis for assessing progress and
making quality decisions. For example, data play an essential role in medical diagnosis and
treatment, engineering, and automobile manufacturing. Educators often report that we cannot
rely on data to solve the challenges students face in the learning process, because in fact
students are too complex (Wayman & Stringfield, 2006). I acknowledge the complexity of the
teaching and learning process, but I maintain that using data appropriately can inform and
improve the process.
Of course, in the age of the No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB), the phrase “data-informed
decision-making” has become part of the lexicon of the American educator. The importance of
using data is now taken for granted as an essential component of any educational
improvement process. School district superintendents consistently report data use as the most
important strategy for addressing NCLB, state accountability systems, and the constant
pressure to improve student achievement (Coburn & Talbert, 2006; Means, 2009).
The use of data as a tool to drive school improvement is not a new phenomenon. Earlier
reform movements, such as A Nation at Risk in the 1980s (Gordon, 2006) and Goals 2000 in the
1990s (Zhao, 2009), also stressed the importance of using data in making educational decisions
and assessing educational progress. However, due to both technological advances and the
mandates of NCLB, there is more data available now than ever before, and the emphasis
placed on data has grown. One particular type of data, student achievement data in the form
of high-stakes standardized tests, has become particularly important. While multiple measures
are advocated, student achievement scores remain a primary indicator of student, teacher,
principal, school, and district effectiveness (Cravens, Chen, Porter, Elliott, & Carson, 2009;
John Murray
The Professional Educator
Leigh, 2010). Furthermore, student performance on standardized tests also influences real
estate values and the overall vitality of a community (Nguyen-Hoang & Yinger, 2011).
The use of data, particularly if only one type is being used, is not a panacea for school
improvement. As Means’ (2009) national study found, school systems have access to more data
than ever before, but most teachers and school leaders lack the skills to use the data for student
and school improvement. Current attempts to use data have lacked depth and have been more
focused on accountability and meeting state and federal requirements than on systematically
investigating the factors that support and hinder the teaching and learning process. As a
result, the potential benefits of data usage have not been realized. We know that teachers,
school leadership, curriculum, and community involvement all influence student learning.
Properly utilized, data can help educators better understand how these dimensions influence
student achievement in a particular context. Multiple types of data should be used, and data
should become a mechanism to connect student performance with curriculum, instruction,
remediation, acceleration, teacher professional development, and the allocation of fiscal and
human resources for school and district improvement (Campbell & Levin, 2009).
A body of research is emerging on data use in schools. Much of the research to date has
dealt with specific areas of schools, such as teachers (Lachat & Smith, 2005; Schildkamp &
Kuiper, 2010), principals (Supovitz & Klein, 2003; Wayman, Cho, & Johnston, 2007), and the
central office (Honig & Coburn, 2008; Moll, 2009). Additionally, a growing research base is
available to help teachers understand educational data use systemically. Scholars are
examining ways to use data to align, integrate, and support various components of a school
district so that the entire district is a more coherent, data-using organization. Knowledge from
these studies suggests that integrated, districtwide data use can be better accomplished by
aligning vision, practice, and data (Supovitz & Klein, 2003; Wohlstetter, Datnow, & Park,
2008), focusing on leadership at multiple levels (Halverson, Prichett, Grigg, & Thomas, 2005;
Mandinach, Honey, Light, & Brunner, 2008), efficiently integrating technology (Wayman,
Conoly, Gasko, & Stringfield, 2008), and emphasizing professional development (Datnow,
Park, & Wohlstetter, 2007).
Still, there is much to learn about how school districts may make better use of data. For
example, we still need to determine the essential components involved in school leaders
efficiently and effectively accessing, generating, managing, interpreting, and acting on data. In
this commentary, I examine the critical issues facing school leaders concerning data-informed
decision-making based on existing research and my experience working with principals,
central office personnel, and state department of education personnel in a southeast state.
Clarifying the Role of Data
The presence of common understandings about educational goals and practices is an
important aspect of organizational improvement. The function and role of data in the school
improvement process is often poorly defined, leading schools and school leaders to be
confused about how and when to use specific types of data. As Wayman and Springfield
Critical Issues Facing School Leaders
Volume 38, No. 1 • Spring, 2014
(2006) have argued, a common understanding of the role of data is critical if it is to be used to
improve schools and student achievement.
There are several important elements involved in clarifying the role of data. It is first
important to be clear about whether decisions will be data-driven, data-based, or datainformed.
I support the argument advanced by Shen and Cooley (2008) that data should
inform rather than drive decisions. Data can serve as an important element in effective
decision-making, but educators should not entirely base their decisions on data. Education is a
human enterprise involving children, and data fail to give educators all of the information they
need to help children learn.
Second, it is important to take a systemic, continuous improvement approach to data
analysis. Educators should gather and analyze data to gain a better understanding of the
system that is producing the current results in a school or district. Then they can use the data
to continuously improve the system and, ultimately, enhance student learning. By “system” I
mean all the processes and procedures that influence student learning. Systems thinking
(Senge, Cambron-McCabe, Lucas, & Kleiner, 2000) is about viewing the whole and the interrelationships
of the parts of the whole to each other. From a systems thinking perspective,
most differences in student performance are due to the system, not the individual student. In
other words, it is important to look not only at the material presented but also the ways in
which it is presented.
Third, data collection and analysis must be firmly connected to guiding questions posed
and answered by teachers and other school leaders. Teachers and other school leaders must
specify what they want to know about their school and students, and must know why the
information is needed. In addition, they must determine what types of data they need to
answer their questions. By keeping the focus on guiding questions developed and answered
by school staff and administrators, data collection and analysis has a clear purpose. After all,
“data, alone, are not evidence of anything until users of the data bring concepts, criteria,
theories of action, and interpretive frames of reference to the task of making sense of the data”
(Knapp, Swinnerton, & Copland, 2006, p. 10). Several studies have confirmed that when school
staff work together to develop guiding questions and select data collection approaches, they
have a better understanding of the role of data, and they remain more focused on the
connection of different types of data to student achievement (Langley, Moen, Nolan, Nolan,
Norman, & Provost, 2009; Wayman, Cho, & Richards, 2010).




Abstract
Within the realm of K–12 education, instability is an inherent feature that school leaders must successfully
manage. Turbulence, in the form of micro-level issues (day-to-day, in-house happenings) and macro-level
concerns (externally imposed organizational disturbances/changes), develops indiscriminately and may escalate
quickly without adequate warning. Therefore, it is necessary to understand the means by which a school leader
can moderate the school atmosphere. This paper reveals the decisions, devices, and behaviors of one school
principal who worked to minimize the effects of turbulent conditions in the senior high school setting. The
findings illuminate particular leadership tools and actions that may be of assistance to school leaders who seek to
better stabilize their schools.
Introduction
Turbulence is an inherent feature of the public school and is something that school leaders must
successfully manage. As Gross (1998) explained, there are many sources of turbulence that may arise,
including a disjointed community, isolation, issue overload, tension-filled conditions, loss of support,
communication problems, rapid changes, value-conflicts, and external pressures.
According to Gross’s (2006) turbulence theory, the concept of positionality is important, since where a
person stands in relation to the turbulence will determine how he or she experiences it. This is because
turbulence “is not usually spread around the school and community in a uniform way” (Gross, 2006, p.
56), and the school principal’s position lends to a preoccupation with many of the conflicts that develop
within the organization. Unfortunately, such conflicts may cluster at any given time, and these
combined forces or events may become formidable, as they create a cascading effect that escalates the
level of turbulence that the school faces (Gross, 2006; Shapiro & Gross, 2013). For the school leader, the
cascading effect is something that is often very real and may require a high capacity for management,
decision-making, and action. Furthermore, the school leader must consider when to deliberately
heighten the level of turbulence within the organization, for the purpose of gaining positive results in
pursuing particular goals (Shapiro & Gross, 2013).
Along with the school principal’s role and expertise in handling turbulence, the school’s stability
will determine whether it can withstand heightened levels of turbulence. The school’s stability level
depends on past and present circumstances, members’ confidence in the inherent worthiness of the
organization, and the school’s ability to be flexible while turning turbulent experiences into
opportunities (Gross & Shapiro, 2013).
Purpose of the Study
The purpose of this study was to examine the workings of a school principal who sought to manage
turbulence within the senior high school environment. The study explores the lived experiences of the
Edward L. Myers
The Professional Educator
leader, subordinates, and stakeholders who were involved with the school organization. The focus is
on gaining an understanding of the school principal’s intentions, and then examining his actual
leadership decisions and behaviors, as experienced by school stakeholders.
Specifically, this study seeks to reveal whether the school principal was able to successfully lead the
school organization during times of heightened turbulence, and to determine what allowed or
disallowed him to do so. The perceptions of administrators, teachers, staff, parents, community
members, and recent graduates were utilized to gather an understanding of the principal’s leadership
behavior. This process was set to generate an understanding of how leader competencies and
organizational behavior relate to the management of turbulence within the school environment.
A Primer on Turbulence within the School Organization
Putnam (1991) revealed that, “within any environment, there are areas of calm, agitation,
opportunity, and danger – as well as areas of unknown risks. Because of these coexisting but conflicting
elements, all environments are turbulent” (pp. 1–2). As an aggregate of uninhibited forces arise, the
degree of instability increases (Putnam, 1991). However, with the right decisions, skills, and actions, a
school can appropriately harness turbulence within the organizational environment (Gross, 2006;
Putnam, 1991; Shapiro & Gross, 2013).
Intertwined with turbulence is the concept of change, which is fundamental to school leadership in
the 21st century. According to Fullan (2009), school principals have the difficult task of managing two
different worlds:
The old world is still around, with expectations that the principal will run a smooth school and to
be responsive to all; simultaneously, the new world rains down on schools with disconnected
demands, expecting that at the end of the day the school constantly should be showing better test
results and ideally becoming a learning organization. (p. 57)
With this “double world” comes the paradox effect, which, as Jaffee (2001) discusses, “stems from the
multiple consequences of a single action which seem to contradict or work at cross-purposes with
another” (p. 34). Even with the best of intentions, the actions of a school principal within such a world
create a natural tension, as both positive and negative organizational effects occur (Jaffee, 2001).
More than two decades ago, Morgan (1988) accurately predicted the 21st century management
world, which consists of tension, ambiguity, and paradox, and proposed that managers must cope with
chaotic, ambiguous situations through creative actions and solutions. Morgan also explained the
necessity for managers to understand that complexity is innate to the leadership game:
Many managers may want simplicity, but the reality is that they have to deal with complexity. The
complexity of organizational life is increasing rather than decreasing, as manifested in the
conflicting demands posed by multiple stakeholders, the need for managers to deal with many
things at once, and the almost continuous state of transition in which organizations exist. (p. 12)
Quite possibly, the school organization stands as the most appropriate venue for Morgan’s
thinking. This is due to the multiplicity of issues and concerns that need to be addressed within the
educational domain (Beck, 1994; Blankstein, 2004; Gross, 1998; Sernak, 1998; Shapiro & Gross, 2013).
Taming Turbulence
Volume 38, No. 2  Fall, 2014
Fullan (2009) outlines various forces of turbulence, fragmentation, and change that mark today’s typical
educational institution, including a lack of coherence in mission; disconnections within the school
curriculum; incomplete and/or insufficient teaching modalities; student alienation and strained
relationships; an anti-intellectual peer culture; and a lack of student support and attention due to large,
overcrowded schools (p. 42).
While high levels of turbulence are very real within today’s K–12 school system, Sergiovanni (2005)
argues that, with the right mix of values, systems, structures, and actions, school leaders hold the
capacity to successfully defend against the obstacles they face as they work to improve their respective
schools. From this perspective, various authors have offered their views on how to best manage the
forces of turbulence, change, and paradox within school organizations (Fullan, 2010; Kochanek, 2005;
MacGilchrist, Myers, & Reed, 2004; O’Donoghue & Clarke, 2010; Schlechty, 2005). In fact, various
conceptual ingredients have been offered for managing, leading, and improving school organizations
in turbulent times. Included in the mix are such terms as networked organizations, distributed leadership,
professional learning communities, ethical decision-making practices, operational intelligence, collective
capacities, teacher leadership, and systemic vision (Fullan, 2009; Gabriel, 2005; Kochanek, 2005; Lambert,
2003; Lunenburg & Irby, 2006; MacGilchrist, Myers, & Reed, 2004; O’Donoghue & Clarke, 2010; Strike,
2007). While some of these focus on the decisions and actions of the school leader, others center on
more global organizational behavior.
In light of the modalities school leaders currently have available to them during turbulent times,
there is an urgent call to microscopically study the actualities of school leadership practice in today’s
schools. This is due to the sociopolitical conditions that have made turbulence and change very real to
the educational arena in the 21st century. To better understand the attributes, proficiencies, and
limitations of school leadership practice, it is necessary to analyze the activity that plays out in K–12
public school settings. By doing so, scholars and practitioners can better understand what is being done
to combat the turbulent forces currently disrupting the educational process. In turn, school leaders,
scholars, and practitioners can learn lessons in educational leadership through real-world scenarios.



Abstract
Professional development school partnerships can improve teaching and learning in our schools. To support
these partnerships, the National Council for the Accreditation of Teacher Education (NCATE) developed
standards for professional development schools. In this article, we address the questions, “What NCATE
standards work from the point of view of school principals and university faculty members when sustaining PDS
partnerships?” and “How can universities improve PDS implementations so that all partners see the benefit of
each NCATE standard?” Although, there is wide agreement between school leaders and university faculty on the
importance of the standards, there are also some notable differences in their functionality.
There is no doubt that a “fully functioning” professional development school (PDS) partnership can
improve teaching and learning in our schools (Darling-Hammond, 2005; The Holmes Partnership, 2006;
Levine, 2006; Tetiel, 2004; Van Scoy & Eldridge, 2012). These improvements manifest themselves in a
variety of ways including, improved student achievement, powerful professional development
opportunities for classroom teachers, and unique opportunities for undergraduate teacher candidates
to learn their craft in a nurturing environment (Darling-Hammond & Baratz-Snowden, 2005; NCATE,
2006). School principals, district leaders, and university professors have opportunities to create
meaningful partnerships that enhance both the school district and the university. However, building
and sustaining quality professional development schools can be a challenge. Turnover in district and
school-based leadership, changing areas of focus by universities or state policymakers, and limited
financial and human resources can all place stress on a partnership. Having clear partnership
expectations and lines of communication between the professional development school and the
collaborating university are key to sustaining a meaningful partnership (Doolittle, Sudeck & Rattigan,
2008).
The National Council for the Accreditation of Teacher Education (NCATE) has developed
standards for professional development schools (Table 1) that have been broadly accepted in the
educational community (NCATE, 2001a). These standards are important in several ways. First and
foremost, the standards address the essential characteristics (critical attributes) of a PDS (Brindley,
Field, & Lessen, 2008). Second, the standards have been instrumental in bringing about a general
consensus within the profession regarding the definition of a professional development school. Third,
the standards are designed to accommodate the developmental nature of PDS partnerships and include
guidelines meant to support PDS development and implementation across various levels. Finally, the
standards provide a common framework across partnerships for investigating PDS outcomes, assessing
PDS quality, and promoting continued partnership development through self-study (NCATE, 2001b).




Abstract
This is a study of teachers’ visions. Five participants were followed through their pre-service years in the
teacher education program and into their first year of teaching to see if their vision was sustained and whether it
appeared in their practice. This paper describes the coding process for visions and discusses changes that occurred
in the visions as participants made the transition from pre-service to in-service teachers. The paper discusses
dissonance between visions and practice and presents implications for teacher educators.
As a teacher educator, I continually explore how to more successfully prepare high-quality reading
teachers who not only know how to teach reading effectively but also possess a vision of their practice
and reading instruction. Teacher visioning is a concept in teacher education that has garnered
significant attention from teacher education and literacy scholars in recent years (Bransford, Derry,
Berliner, Hammerness, & Beckett, 2005; Duffy, 2002; Fairbanks, Duffy, Faircloth, He, Levin, Rohr, &
Stein, 2010; Gambrell, Malloy, & Mazzoni, 2011; Hammerness, 2006; Kennedy, 2006; Shulman &
Shulman, 2004; Vaughn & Faircloth, 2011). Visions are images of ideal practice that guide teachers’
instructional decision-making and provide them with a touchstone for measuring their pedagogical
efforts (Hammerness, 2006; Shulman & Shulman, 2004).
Research on visioning that follows pre-service teachers into their in-service years is currently
limited to two studies: Rattigan-Rohr (2005) and Hammerness (2006). Rattigan-Rohr studied
prospective teachers’ initial and final vision statements during their introductory teaching class in their
sophomore year prior to declaring education as their major. She found that the majority of prospective
teachers did not have visions for teaching when entering the introductory class, and their visions seem
to be shaped by the course experiences, particularly by the field experience component of the course.
Rattigan-Rohr categorized visions as being moral or intellectual, based on the existing literature.
Hammerness followed student teachers into their first few years of teaching and reported the focus of
the visions and the influence of the visions’ attainability on teaching. She found the distance between
vision and teaching context either sustained or led to discouragement with teaching. The attainable
vision sustained and inspired teachers, while visions that were seemingly distant from reality or in
opposition with mandates led to discouragement and career moves (Hammerness, 2006, 2008).
As teacher educators, however, we have limited data regarding the sustainability of those visions,
particularly those developed within teacher education programs. This article reports results from a
longitudinal teacher education study that examines the visions of pre-service teachers in their junior
and senior years through their first year of teaching.
Problem
This study examines whether pre-service teachers’ visions are enacted in the lessons they teach for
literacy methods courses and whether their visions are sustained and enacted in literacy instruction
during their first year of teaching. This study has implications for determining how teacher education
influences teachers’ visions (Shulman & Shulman, 2004) and whether visions developed in pre-service
education are sustained. Two questions propelled this study:
1. What is the focus of pre-service teachers’ visions?
2. How are pre-service teachers’ visions evident in their reflections on the teaching of literacy and
in their first year of teaching?
Theorizing Teacher Vision
Over the past several years, teacher visioning has garnered significant scholarly attention
(Bransford et al., 2005; Fairbanks et al., 2010; Gambrell, Malloy, & Mazzoni, 2011; Hammerness, 2006;
2008; Kennedy, 2006; Shulman & Shulman, 2004; Vaughn & Faircloth, 2011). Researchers have defined
a “vision” in teaching in several different ways; however, a common theme emerges. Briefly, theorists
present a vision as a source that inspires teachers and guides their classroom instruction (Duffy, 2002;
Gambrell, Malloy, & Mazzoni, 2011; Feiman-Nemser, 2001; Hammerness et al., 2005; Hansen, 2001;
Lampert, 2001; Shulman & Shulman, 2004).
Rattigan-Rohr (2005) pulled from the research literature to define a teacher’s vision as a personal
moral compass directing teachers to shape their practice and to act in ways they believe will positively
benefit students. Possessing a vision, therefore, is an individual teacher’s commitment to a morality
that goes beyond traditional curricular goals and acknowledges that teaching children also includes a
responsibility to develop larger understandings and attitudes. Duffy (2005) calls vision a “moral
compass” because visions create a conscious awareness of how teachers wish to touch the future.
Similarly, theorists describe the call to teach as a mindset through which teachers create a vision of
who they are and by which they make decisions to engage in constructivist or other forms of highly
engaged teaching (Gambrell, Malloy, & Mazzoni, 2011; Garrison, 1997; Shulman & Shulman, 2004).
Garrison (1997) argues that outstanding teachers not only answer the call to teach but that they
“become this call…with persistence and care” (p. 74).
In addition to a moral purpose, researchers conclude that the exceptional teacher also develops a
vision with a strong intellectual purpose; this teacher develops a vision that seeks to create conditions
that will stir children’s capabilities to achieve enhanced learning (Cuffaro, 1995; Gambrell, Malloy, &
Mazzoni, 2011). Also, effective teachers are most often the ones who can be found working hard to
ensure that their classroom practices are securely rooted in intellectual honesty and integrity (Ball,
1993; Lampert, 2001). As a matter of course, visionary teachers appear to be constantly seeking to find
new and different ways to help their students learn and grow (Gambrell, Malloy, & Mazzoni, 2011).
They know that finding new strategies and methods requires both growing and the “letting go” of
favorite and long-accustomed techniques (Hammerness et al., 2005). We understand then that teachers
with visions work hard to ensure their students are able to acquire insights into themselves and their
world.
Wood, Nelson, and Warfield (2001) lamented what they saw as the deficiency of an intellectual
focus and the lack of movement toward a “well-articulated vision” by many teachers of mathematics
(p. 12). They noted their view of the benefits of an intellectual vision for the development of
mathematics instruction. In such a vision, teachers would focus the teaching on understanding and
reasoning, and on high standards of achievement. They also noted, however, that in classrooms where
this kind of well-articulated intellectual vision is missing, low-level instruction continues to dominate.
A Vygotskian social constructivist perspective serves as a theory underlying how visions develop.
Learning is more fully facilitated in the social context (Vygotsky, 1981). That is, pre-service teachers
have had their entire career as students to observe teachers at work, a process Lortie (1975) labeled
“apprenticeship of observation” (p. 61). Therefore, whatever understanding pre-service teachers
construct about their developing visions has two components: (a) the thoughts or mindset they brought
with them to the teacher education program, and (b) some possible adjustments and/or additions to
those thoughts based upon what they learned in the social environment of the teacher education
program.
A fundamental idea to this Vygotskian social constructivist perspective is the concept of the zone of
proximal development (ZPD) (Vygotsky, 1978). According to Vygotsky, the ZPD is the space between
what one actually knows and what one potentially could know, as determined through problem
solving under the influence of a more knowledgeable person. Therefore, the development of preservice
teachers’ visions is likely influenced by contacts with various perspectives, presented to them
within their ZPD, including information from readings, contact with teachers in field experiences,
discussions about visions, interactions with peers, and other teacher education activities.
The expectation from this line of reasoning is that pre-service teachers link social and external
interactions to their own internal developing visions for teaching (Forman & Cazden, 1985), which
influences their thinking (Hughes, 1958). In the pre-service years, students wrote a vision statement
upon beginning a new semester in the teacher education program. After readings, lectures, discussions,
and field experiences, students continued to refine and refocus their vision statements. Consequently,
pre-service teachers revised and refined their vision statements multiple times over two years.




Abstract
Across the nation, educators continue to face challenges as they work to individualize instruction to meet
the specific needs of their students. However, theory suggests that teachers who possess a clear vision for teaching
creatively weave their personal convictions for teaching with instructional practices. Drawing upon a teacher’s
(first author) account of her vision and the classroom literacy practices structured over the course of one year, a
practical approach is taken to address teacher visioning as a way to sustain teachers’ creativity despite the
pressures associated with teaching in today’s educational climate.
Recent educational reform efforts (see Race to the Top, 2009) continue to pressure educators to
teach according to standardized curricula despite the fact that such efforts have been proven to fail
many of the nation’s students (Good, 2011). In contrast, scholars contend that by following one’s
vision, teachers may be able to “speak back” to institutional directives and therefore more easily meet
the individual needs of their students (Achinstein & Ogawa, 2006; Duffy; 2002; Hammerness, 2003;
2006; Vaughn & Faircloth, 2011). By creating a vision for teaching, educators are able to craft an “ideal
image” of what it is they wish to accomplish in their classrooms and use this to sustain them
throughout their teaching career (Hammerness, 2006). Teachers who enact a clear vision are often able
to “adjust, modify, and invent” (Duffy, 2002, p. 333) as they use their vision to guide their work. Much
like “a mirror… teachers [use] their vision and recognize successes as well as identifying areas for
improvement” (p. 3). Gambrell and her colleagues (2011) support this claim as they suggest that
“without a vision the teacher is left to sway and sputter as a candle facing the winds of curricular
change and federal, district, and school level impositions” (p. 18). A teacher’s vision is therefore,
arguably, an essential tool in classrooms today.
Like many educators across the nation, I (first author) was frustrated with my district and my
principal’s efforts to enforce prescribed educational policies that did not fit the individual needs of my
students. I conducted this self-study research project as a way to explore my vision for teaching, the
way it was enacted, and to understand the relationship between these foundational variables and my
students’ literacy experiences. At the time of the study, I was a beginning doctoral candidate at a
university in the southeastern part of the United States. This study began as a course assignment and
was then extended to further examine how I worked to enact my vision despite teaching in a restrictive
climate. The research questions guiding this study include:
1. What were the salient dimensions of my vision?
2. How were classroom activities structured to meet this vision?
3. In what ways did my students experience literacy (both their practices and their responses) as
my vision was enacted?
In this article, I share my reflections about my teaching over the course of one year and focus on the
ways in which I negotiated my vision for teaching literacy within the curriculum, as well as the ways in
which my students participated in these literacy activities. Although I taught in a school that
recommended scripted curricula, I adapted and modified the curriculum based on my vision to meet
the individual needs of my students. I provide insight into my understandings about my teaching
practice and suggest that through doing research of one’s classroom practice, educators may sustain
their vision and continue to grow.
Related Literature
Many scholars have noted the ways in which prescriptive literacy programs restrict teacher
autonomy and creativity (Dooley & Assaf, 2009; Pearson, Raphael, Benson & Madda, 2007; Vaughn &
Parsons, 2012). Although such prescriptive measures have served to limit teachers’ instructional
decisions, the impact on student achievement has also generated a dismal picture. Results from the
U.S. Department of Education’s National Center for Education Statistics (NCES) found that during the
time federally approved prescriptive literacy programs flooded the nation, the achievement gap in
reading grew wider from the start of kindergarten in fall 1998 to the end of 3rd grade in spring 2002.
More recently, according to the 2011 National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP), the average
fourth grade and eighth grade reading scores remained unchanged from 2009 scores. Such results
suggest that despite federal mandates to increase student achievement in literacy, the efforts have not
produced significant gains.
In contrast, scholars theorize that teacher visioning may be a way to empower educators, giving
them a voice against institutional directives that have limited teachers’ instructional decisions (Duffy,
2005; Hammerness, 2008; Vaughn, 2013). These studies suggest that as teachers use their vision to
make decisions, they work to provide instruction they believe best fit the individual needs of their
students, classrooms, and school community. According to Hammerness (2006), visions “…can help
reveal how teachers conceive of their subjects and their students and how much they pay attention to
each” (p. 6). Taken together, visioning suggests a viable tool to empower today’s educators to teach
according to their personal convictions and beliefs of what works best for their students.
Researchers have begun to examine how even very young students participate in reading activities
during teacher-led literacy activities, often examining how students perform during such activities
(Davis, 2007; Sipe, 2000). Toth, Dobo-Tarai, and Revak-Moarkoczi (2007) found that first graders
provided detailed knowledge of complex concepts when interviewed of their understandings.
Similarly, Dyson (1997), in her important work with young kindergarten students, found that young
readers and writers described detailed stories about their out-of-school lives and provided clear
understandings and beliefs about literacy. Building from this, the current study explored first graders’
reactions to literacy instruction through the use of interviews and observations as a way to fully
explore their engagement in and reaction to literacy activities and to contextualize my vision within the
classroom.
Like many educators, while I had confidence in my vision, my vision was at odds with my school’s
recommendations. At the time, my colleagues and I were strongly encouraged to use the same scripted
literacy program and to level students according to designated labels (high, medium, and low) in an
effort to send them to different classrooms for ability-based reading instruction. The school claimed
this practice was grounded in research and would increase students’ test scores on the state-mandated
Developmental Reading Assessments (DRA; Beaver, 2006) that were given to first graders. I argued
against this practice because I was opposed to labeling students as low, medium, and high. Based on
my teaching experiences, such designations lowered students’ confidence, turning reading into a
competitive activity, and it appeared to create barriers for students. Students seemed to live up to that
expectation, often believing that reading was not something they could or should do.
Additionally, teachers in grades kindergarten through second grade were pulled from their
classrooms in the spring to conduct test preparation with the third through fifth grades. The
administration suggested these grades needed remedial support to pass the state’s assessments.
Because of this, K–2 teachers were pulled each day over the course of 3 weeks, during their literacy
block, to conduct small-group “skills and drills” lessons with upper elementary students. This testing
blitz sent a message to K–2 that high-stakes testing was perhaps more important than the literacy
instruction in the lower grades. During this time, teaching assistants were asked to conduct literacy
instruction. Additionally, I was opposed to this practice because believed that a “skills and drills”
approach was not providing students with the necessary support they needed. Moreover, this
approach to teaching was very distant from instructional practices I believed fit with my vision. As
such, the emphasis on testing and teaching using this approach proved to be an obstacle that conflicted
with my vision for teaching. In contrast, I wanted students to develop at their individual pace while
participating in the literacy curriculum. Thus, I did not use the scripted curriculum program
recommended by my principal and used by my colleagues. In doing so, this brought conflict, but I
worked to develop instruction to meet my vision.




Abstract
This paper presents findings from a study surveying student teachers (N = 128) from two universities
who reported a significantly greater influence by university-based supervisors on their teaching when they had
taken a class with the supervisor prior to student teaching. The student teachers were more likely to report
implementing university teachings and using supervisors’ advice than if they had not taken a class with that
supervisor. These findings have important implications as they suggest a greater transfer of learning from the
university to the classroom, producing student teachers who are willing to incorporate and implement universitybased
practices in a new context.
The No Child Left Behind (NCLB) mandate for more highly qualified teachers has forced teacher
preparation programs to reflect, rethink, and reform their methods for training new teachers. New or
additional classes, higher standards, and increased numbers of standardized tests (e.g., Praxis exams)
are all being implemented in an effort to develop stronger, more effective programs with the
expectation of improving teacher quality and student achievement.
Student teaching, often the culminating experience of preservice teachers’ education, allows
students to connect research to practice in an authentic setting (Zeichner, 2002). Thus, strengthening the
student teaching experience is viewed as a key component to improving teacher education. Ongoing
partnerships with schools, full-year internships, pre-student teaching placements, and extended field
experiences are among the efforts to reform and improve the student teaching experience (e.g.,
McKinney et al., 2008; Devlin-Scherer, Mitchel, & Mueller, 2007; Latham & Vogt, 2007).
Additionally, in an effort to nurture and secure master cooperating teachers, education programs
are attempting to raise the bar regarding who can qualify as a cooperating teacher. Prior research
indicates that cooperating teachers are seen as the most important figure in student teaching because
student teachers often emulate their cooperating teachers, even when the instructional methods conflict
with what is taught at the university (Glenn, 2006; Koeppen, 1998; Metcalf, 1991; Su, 1992; Zheng &
Webb, 2000). For example, Bates and Burbank note that “student teachers quickly accommodate to
classroom practices…without considering the impact on student learning” (2008, p. 31). The student
teachers often believe that the classroom teachers have “real” experience and know better than their
university education faculty (Marks, 2002).
The role and influence of the university supervisor within the student teaching process is
frequently ignored or discounted, often by both the student teacher and the cooperating teacher
(Marks, 2002). A lack of impact on the student teacher has led some researchers to imply that university
supervisors are superfluous (Metcalf, 1991; Zeichner & Gore, 1990). Instead of providing additional
insights and support, university supervisors are viewed as “inspectors” rather than collaborative
Kristen N. Asplin & Melissa J. Marks
The Professional Educator
partners (Ongel, Capa, & Vellom, 2002) and are seen as less qualified than cooperating teachers to
grade student teachers (Zheng & Webb, 2000). Research on improving communication among the triad
of student teacher, university supervisor, and cooperating teacher, or balancing this triad’s power
structure, has often indicated that the university supervisor is the weak link (Silva, 2000; Tsui et al.,
2001; Wilder & Croker, 1999).
The other side of the debate posits that university supervisors are very important in “supporting
student teachers’ implementation of recent reforms and theories learned in coursework” (Fernandez &
Erbilgin, 2009, p. 94). This transfer of learning from the university to the classroom can be impacted by
university supervisors when: (a) a positive relationship exists between the student teacher and the
supervisor; (b) the student teacher recognizes the supervisor’s expertise and professionalism; (c) the
supervisor is accessible; and (d) the supervisor consistently holds the student teacher to university
expectations as they are expressed in university education classes or in a student teacher handbook
(Marks, 2002). Additionally, university supervisors appear to provide emotional support needed for
student teachers to acclimate to the initial hurdles encountered in student teaching (Caires, Almeida, &
Martins, 2010; Caires & Almeida, 2007). More generally, instructors fulfill a variety of roles that can
influence student teachers. They serve as experts on course content, as learning facilitators, curriculum
developers, mentors and role models, resource providers, and supporters and nurturers of students.
An effective student-teacher relationship can have a pervasive impact on the social, emotional,
cognitive, and behavioral lives of students. Student teachers considered their university supervisors’
“personal features,” including being supportive, non-judgmental, and helpful, to be essential to
overcoming obstacles and maintaining their emotional balance during student teaching (Caires &
Almeida, 2007).
In clinical psychological research, the concept of therapeutic alliance suggests that the relationship
between the counselor and the client is a key factor in the success of therapy (Krupnick et al., 1996).
Similarly, the bond between instructor and student may enrich and influence the student’s life and may
also lead to an increased amount of transfer from that instructor’s teaching to the student’s own
classroom practices. This bond may be especially important because the social and emotional
experiences upon entering student teaching are often unexpected by the student teacher. Their selfview
as teachers change due to the “reality shock” (Caires et al., 2010). Their high self-expectations and
belief that “they know and control all the facets of the profession and of the school ethos” (Fernandez &
Erbilgin, 2009, p. 17) are challenged by the realities of the classroom. These changes in self-perception
leading to teacher socialization can be attributed to the Sociocultural Theory of Learning (e.g.,
Vygotsky, 1934/1962).
According to the Sociocultural Theory, knowledge about teaching is socially constructed between
the learner and the community around them: Preservice teachers are processing ideas, beliefs, and
practices from the communities in which they are involved. While at the university, this community
consists of faculty, fellow education students, and other university-based inputs. Once in the school
classroom, however, the context that the student teacher operates in has changed. Now their
community consists primarily of classroom teachers, students, and parents.
While the university supervisor bridges these communities, the influence of his or her “voice”
within the student teaching community is ambiguous. With the overall goal of investigating whether
certain university procedures can increase the influence and effectiveness of the student teaching
experience, two intermediate questions became the focus of our study. First, is there a difference
Increasing University Supervisor Influence
Volume 37, No. 1 • Spring, 2013
between student teachers who had previously taken a class with their university supervisor compared
to those who had not in regard to the student-teacher relationship; willingness to take advice;
likelihood of the using university-taught methods; and overall perception of the university supervisor’s
knowledge of pedagogy, content, and the “real” classroom? Second, is there a correlation between
student teachers’ relationships with their university supervisors and their likelihood of using
university-taught methods in their classrooms, accepting their university supervisors’ advice, and
valuing their university supervisors’ knowledge? These two questions taken together show how the
relationship between supervisors and student teachers affects the transfer of learning from university
to school classroom and thus shed light on the effectiveness and influence of university supervisors.




Abstract
Given the powerful influence of past school experiences on the ways in which future teachers decide to teach,
it is important to help preservice teachers more deliberately and critically explore the implications of those
influences. This study grew out of an assignment in which 38 secondary education majors were asked to describe
high school teachers they remember as being their favorite teachers and their most effective teachers. There was
some overlap between the categories, but more often than not teachers who were considered “favorites” during
high school were now seen as having ‘defaulted on their responsibility to educate and supervise, to open minds
and challenge ... students.’ Although the responses yielded 35 different characteristics of effective teachers, three
were dominant: their passion or enthusiasm for both teaching and the subject matter, their concern for the
learning of all students, and their knowledge of subject matter.
It is fairly well known that the conceptions of what it means to be a teacher held by preservice
teachers are well established long before they enter formal teacher education programs (Hollingsworth,
1993; Holt-Reynolds, 92, Lortie, 1975; Pajares, 1992; Resnick, 1989; Ross, Johnson, & Smith, 1991; Skamp
& Mueller, 2001). Moreover, those beliefs have been shown to be highly resistant to change during
professional preparation (Kennedy, 1997; Murphy, Delli, & Edwards, 2004; Zeichner & Tabachnik,
1981). If the beliefs promoted a dynamic view of what it means to become a teacher, they might not be
problematic. However, more often than not, Howard (1987) suggested that preservice teacher beliefs
reflect two dominant theories: “If it works for other teachers, use it,” and “if it works, keep it” (p. 59). It
is not unusual for teachers to view their job as an extended form of parenting and rely more on instinct,
experience, conversation with colleagues, and trial-and-error than on formalized procedures to learn
their craft (Banks, 1991; Clark, 1988; Goodlad, 1984; Lortie, 1975; Nias, 1989; Paine, 1990).
None of this is to say that the beliefs and assumptions in question are immutable or that teacher
education is completely without influence. While existing concepts are unlikely to undergo radical
change, there is reason to believe that they can expand in meaning (Check, 1999; Mills & Satterthwait,
2000; Ng, Nicholas, & Williams, 2010; Skamp & Mueller, 2001). Some preparation programs manage to
nurture that sort of belief change. They do so by challenging candidates as early as possible to explore
their own dispositions through a variety of tools by which they can outline why they want to be
teachers and what images of effective teaching they hold (Mills & Satterthwait, 2000; Minor,
Onwuegbuzie, Witcher, & James, 2002; Slate, Capraro, & Onwuegbuzie, 2007; Willie, 1985; Witcher,
Onwuegbuzie, & Minor, 2001). They make a deliberate and ongoing effort to confront candidates with
Rick A. Breault
The Professional Educator
their own beliefs “in the context of research, promising practice, psychological theories, and
philosophical beliefs that underpin professional goals and practices” (Minor, et al., 2002, p. 117).
This study describes one such effort to promote critical reflection in a small group of secondary
education majors. The purpose of the assignment was to confront the preservice teachers with their
own, perhaps subconscious, notions of what makes an effective high school teacher, based on their
prior education. Then they would explore how those notions might influence their own future
teaching. After reading the responses, I decided to categorize and synthesize the descriptions to create
portraits of effective and ineffective teachers that might help future teachers shape their teaching
identities and practices.
Method of Investigation
The research was conducted in a Midwestern public university with one of the largest teacher
education programs in the country. The student writing out of which this inquiry grew was assigned as
one of the requirements in an introductory education course entitled, Current Issues in Secondary
Education. The class consisted of 38 secondary education majors, 6 of whom declined to provide
consent to use their essays. The students were asked to answer the following questions in no more than
five double-spaced pages.
1. Who do you recall as your favorite teacher and why?
2. Who do you recall as your most effective teacher and why?
The assignment was introduced with a brief explanation in which the students were asked to limit
their selections to high school teachers and told that the favorite and most effective teacher could be the
same person or two different people. They were also told they could include more than one person in
each category if they were conflicted about their choices. No definitions were suggested for either
“favorite” or “effective.” The participants were free to think about them in whatever ways seemed
appropriate. The favorite/effective dichotomy was used as a forced choice that might challenge
simplistic ideas about making the classroom fun, having close relationships with students, and teacher
versus student needs.
The assignment was limited to recollections of high school teachers for three reasons. First, the
recollections would be more recent. Second, the nature of the teacher-student relationship is very
different in elementary school. In that setting a child might have only one teacher besides a few
“special” teachers in any given grade. As a result, the emotional connections can be more powerful.
Moreover, it would be difficult to recall and make honest comparisons between what was needed as a
five-year old and as an eleven-year old. And if elementary school was added into the possible choices,
the participants would have had to compare what they remember as being a highly effective third
grade class and a senior level advanced mathematics class. A third reason was that the nature and role
of the curriculum, extra-curricular activities, social life, and student expectations at the two levels is so
different as to make comparisons difficult.
The students had one week to write the essays so that they would have time to reflect on their
choices. Since the participants were no more than six years out of high school and early in their college
career, they might not have given much deliberate thought or conscious expression to the long-term
impact of high school teachers.
Favorite and Effective Teachers
Volume 37, No. 1 • Spring, 2013
After removing the identifying information, each essay was read with the help of two
undergraduate research assistants. The analysis of data included simply tallying the characteristics of
each category and ranking the characteristics in order of the number of occurrences. We then met to
negotiate what we agreed upon as major themes and/or counter themes in the responses. The most
common discrepancies involved discussing whether one term was synonymous with another. For
example, to what extent did a phrase like “genuine interest in student success” mean the same thing as
“genuinely cared about students”? The results were separated into quantitative and narrative
summaries. Given the small sample size and the wide range of subject areas involved, it was decided
that any statistical treatment of the numerical data would not be meaningful or shed any additional
light on the results. Therefore, that data was simply tallied and summarized to provide a general
profile of each category.



Abstract
An abundance of research confirms preservice teachers are unprepared to work with diverse populations. This
article describes an education program’s efforts to support diversity initiatives and provide information and
hands-on training to prepare teacher candidates for future work with the diversity they will encounter.
Explanations of programs, coursework, professional development, and current and supportive literature are
included.
Introduction
Imagine a world where all teachers are comfortable working with all students. They are prepared to
meet the needs of every child based on academic abilities, physical and emotional constraints, and
cultural, religious and domestic backgrounds. Imagine a world where classrooms are equipped with
the necessities that provide for the ultimate learning experience for all children. They are filled with
books from all cultures, in many languages; pictures representative of all people; manipulative
materials to fit all hands; and decorations and wall art that is inviting to every individual. Imagine a
world where all children can go to school unafraid, excited, and knowing they will be treated equally.
Imagine a world where parents feel comfortable entering their child’s school, talking to their child’s
teachers, and being involved in the education of the whole.
We call ourselves simply The Diversity Committee for our University’s School of Education. While
we cannot expect to make the description above a reality, we can and have worked toward that vision
in our own smaller community. Our mission is to 1) cultivate and continuously improve a curriculum
that will engage all faculty members as diversity responsive professionals, 2) pre-pare all teacher
candidates to function effectively in diverse classrooms, and 3) develop and nurture a relationship with
partner schools and other university education programs that strive to promote diversity awareness
and education.
Sonia Nieto (2006) shares a list of qualities (beyond those research reveals) that she believes good
teachers should possess. They are 1) “a sense of mission,” 2) “solidarity with, and empathy for, their
students,” 3) “the courage to challenge main-stream knowledge,” 4) “improvisation,” and 5) “a passion
for social justice” (p. 463).
Wong et al. (2007) state “teacher quality must be defined beyond the parameters of content
knowledge to include a teacher’s ability to create optimal learning environments for students
marginalized by the system because of their primary language, race/ethnicity, social class, culture,
gender, and ability” (p. 10).
Greta Freeman, Marilyn Izzard, Rebecca Faulkner & Jim Charles
The Professional Educator
This paper provides a general outline of our committee’s work with teacher candidates, colleagues,
and PK–12 schools to promote diversity awareness and responsive teaching. It specifically breaks down
best practice program initiatives we have found successful. We strive to promote quality teaching from
a research standpoint: knowledge of subject matter; good communication and organizational skills; and
training in educational pedagogy. Yet, we embrace those additional qualities listed by Nieto to help our
teacher practitioners and professionals grow their knowledge, attitudes, and skills for working with a
diverse student population. We make every effort to produce quality teachers as defined by Wong et
al., to be knowledgeable in content and all-encompassing of diversity.
School of Education Unit Diversity Plan
Nichols and Dong (2011) make a bold statement when they say, “The majority of today’s American
pre-service teachers just simply do not understand what multi-cultural education is” (p. 6). They go on
to challenge education programs to “better prepare their students for teaching the multicultural
student populations they will undoubtedly encounter” (p. 6). We believe, as a committee, our
education unit is prepared to take this challenge.
Our committee begins each academic year by updating our “unit diversity plan,” which one can
access at http://www.uscupstate. edu/academics/education/default.aspx?id=2489. This plan focuses on
diversity initiatives for teacher candidates, faculty, partner schools, and the unit as a whole.
Nichols and Dong follow some important researchers in the area of multicultural education with
their prescriptions for education programs. Ladson-Billings (2001), Gay (2002), Banks and McGee
Banks (2004) and Cochran-Smith and Zeichner (2005) have all called for change and/or better
preparation in multicultural teacher education. In keeping with this standard, the following list
describes activities integrated into our curriculum and supported by our diversity committee and unit
diversity plan.
Course Assignments
Each year, course instructors update a unit Excel chart detailing diversity-related content for all
education program courses. We ensure inclusion of diversity related topics in the majority of our
program coursework.
Teacher Work Sample Diverse Learner Project
As a part of the required teacher work sample portfolio implemented during the student teaching
semester, preservice teachers are required to follow and work with a student from a diverse
background. This can include racial, ethnic, cultural, socioeconomic, or other differences. They then
report and reflect on the experience in the work sample portfolio.
SEDF 483 – Organization and Management of a Diverse Classroom
This course is specifically designed to detail practices supporting instruction in a diverse classroom.
All teacher candidates are required to take this course the semester before student teaching.
www.teachdiversity.org
This website, a collaborative effort between USC Upstate and Furman University Education
programs, “identifies resources for teaching and managing diversity in the classroom.” It is valuable
for teacher candidates, teachers in the field, and university faculty in that it provides valuable
School of Education Diversity Initiatives
Volume 36, No. 1 • Spring, 2012
diversity-related resources such as lesson plans and links to other websites. This website is shared with
our public school partners and “seeks to help educators prepare for the next generation to deal
positively with the opportunities and challenges that diversity affords.”
Field Experiences
Dunn et al. (2009) advocate “faculties of education aim to ensure that all teacher candidates take
part in field experiences that involve working in communities with diverse populations” (p. 553). Early
field experiences and student teaching are essential parts of our programs. We have developed
relationships with schools allowing us to place our teacher candidates in classrooms for observation
and practice teaching. We also offer some of our courses on the K–12 school campuses. Our teacher
candidates are placed in schools each semester after being admitted to the professional program. The
field experience director makes certain they are placed in rural, urban, and high poverty schools for
one or more of their placements. The teacher candidate population in our education program is
approximately 70% Caucasian. During the senior year, our elementary education teacher candidates
are placed in two very different schools for approximately 100 hours of field work: One school is
predominately African American; the other is predominately of Hispanic culture. The response from
the prestudent teachers is overwhelmingly positive.
Diversity Conference
This one-day event for student teachers from USC Upstate and other South Carolina college and
university education programs is a forum for sharing ideas and activities for supporting diversity. The
conference, formally called the Diversity Collaborative, brings together future teachers from various
cultural backgrounds to learn from professionals in the field and one another. The event is described in
detail later in this paper.




Abstract
As teacher educators, we explored the impact of a range of teaching approaches to encourage the development
of critically reflective thinking (CRT) in teacher candidates. Our study, the second in a series of three
investigations, examined differences in two preservice secondary teachers’ responses to CRT as part of a teacher
licensure program. We discuss the influence of content area conventions and views on curriculum when
preservice teachers are exposed to tools that promote CRT. Our study includes data analyses of the experiences of
preservice teachers’ work in urban student-teaching classrooms, along with the university coursework in a
teacher preparation program.
Our research questions examine the perspectives of two preservice teachers and address the following: On
completion of a year-long teacher preparation program focused on encouraging CRT, what are the differences
between two preservice teachers in their critically reflective thinking as evidenced by their reflections on teaching?
In what ways do the perspectives differ between two content area teachers? And after a first year of teaching, what
are these same teachers’ CRT perspectives? Our study is designed to produce usable knowledge—that is, findings
that other teacher educators should consider in the design and implementation of field-based experiences and
curriculum development for preservice teachers working with diverse student populations.
Theoretical Framework
Students’ success in school hinges in part on the teachers’ views of children’s language, race,
gender, and socioeconomic status (Comber & Simpson, 2001). These differences may, for teachers
newly faced with a diverse group of students, evoke notions of deficit or deficiency (Milner, 2008). If
teachers adopt deficit views of students’ cultures and languages, they strive to “fix” students they see
as the “problem,” rather than the curriculum, society, or school policies that result in segregated
classrooms and exclusion from success in school (Banks, 2002; Hollins & Guzman, 2005; Sleeter &
Grant, 1999). Likewise, deficit thinking adopts a “blame the victim” stance that can prevent students in
urban contexts from reaching their full potential, as teachers may not adequately challenge students of
diversity (Milner, 2008; 2010). In this study, CRT is explored to examine the impact of pedagogical and
field-based practices that challenge deficit thinking, and to question assumptions.
Mary Burbank, Laurie Ramirez, & Alisa Bates
The Professional Educator
While CRT typically prompts examinations of how teachers reflect on question identification and
their understandings for problem solving, researchers have conceptualized CRT in a variety of ways
(Loughran, 2002; Rodgers, 2002; Shandomo, 2010). Similar to what some researchers call “critical
reflection,” CRT involves problem identification or framing, reflection on the basis of that identification
(perhaps historical, social, or cultural in nature), and action planning to address the perceived problem
(Brookfield, 1995; Shandomo, 2010). The CRT process is complex in nature, requiring introspection
about how one’s beliefs, assumptions, and experiences influence perceptions of self and the social
world (Shandomo, 2010).
Many preservice teachers enter their education programs with unexamined beliefs and
assumptions of students, as well as problematic conceptions of the role of schools in society; yet it is
imperative that educators develop stances that allow them to view “problems” from multiple
perspectives and actively question assumptions, routines, practices, and standing explanations that are
taken for granted (Carrington & Selva, 2010; Loughran, 2002). That is, teacher educators must help
preservice teachers identify why a problem exists and examine the factors that have influenced its
identification.
Like problem framing, seeking solutions requires a reflective process from educators that extends
beyond strategy implementation. Educators must consider the factors that influence why problems
occur, examine why problems are identified as significant, and develop strategies for responding that
reflect an open-mindedness that is informed both by other educators and theories of practice (Dewey,
1933). The intensity and mindfulness of reflective thinking extends beyond problem solving in terms of
depth and focus (Dewey, 1933), requiring what Larrivee (2008) suggests is a complete paradigm shift
from “viewing problems as needing to be dealt with to seeing them as opportunities for self-reflection
and the emergence of new possibilities” (p. 101).
Van Manen (1977) defined critical reflection as using criteria of justice and equity to consider the
political, moral, and ethical consequences of teaching practice. Larrivee (2008) similarly suggests that
critical reflection is an opportunity for teachers to “reflect on the moral and ethical implications and
consequences of their classroom practices” (p. 90), a process that requires examination of how one’s
personal and professional belief systems might impact students and their learning
For teacher educators, efforts intended to promote critically reflective practice have been limited in
terms of the impact on teachers’ thinking. For example, case analyses and discussions, reflective
journaling, and action research provide tools for staging reflective thought (Carrington & Selva, 2010;
Gore & Zeichner, 1991; cf. Harrington, Quinn-Leering, & Hodson, 1996; Leland, Harste, & Youssef,
1997; cf. Moje & Wade, 1997; Nolan, 2008; Risko, Roskos, & Vukelich, 1999; Wade, Fauske, &
Thompson, 2008). However, findings have indicated that the degree to which reflective thinking takes
place by teachers is often limited.
Like others, we assumed a combination of approaches to teaching critically reflective thinking in
connection with field experiences would provide support for the development of CRT and teaching
practices. We hoped adopting a contextual approach would enable our preservice teachers to engage
in CRT in meaningful ways by connecting coursework and fieldwork (Shandomo, 2010). Specifically,
we included opportunities for problem-framing activities, critical analyses of literature through inperson
and online discussions using scenario prompts, and investigations into real-world teaching
experiences coupled with action research projects.
Critically Reflective Thinking in Urban Teacher Education
Volume 36, No. 2 • Fall, 2012
Teacher Development and CRT
The implementation of CRT and the manifestations of practice within teacher education programs
is not a simple effort infused with fool-proof strategies or tools. An historical review of curricular and
field-based trends in teacher education illustrates how attention to how crucial reflection on topics such
as diversity and multiculturalism have developed in nuanced ways over time, reflecting changes in
content and course-related experiences (Castro, 2010). While these developmental dimensions of
program changes document the evolution of depth in program delivery, focus, and intent, the
outcomes for preservice teachers in their daily practices have varied considerably.
In his article on analyses of documented research on approaches to increasing preservice
teachers’ understandings of cultural diversity in teacher education during the past 30 years, Castro
delineates the success with which programs have addressed student teachers’ engagement and
understanding of cultural diversity. This in-depth review of previous research challenges teacher
educators to consider how various program-based pedagogies, curricula, and field experience move
teacher thinking beyond more superficial understandings of diversity.
While an increased awareness of the complexity of multicultural understandings have been
fostered among preservice teachers through a range of efforts, the results for most preservice teachers
have been rather narrow (Castro, 2010). Although iterations in course- and field-based experiences that
included direct work within communities, personal reflections, and examinations of beliefs and
backgrounds have been infused within teacher education programs over time, the impact has not been
significant. More substantive change has occurred, however, within programs that tap into what Castro
describes as a greater awareness of and acceptance of diverse communities. He cites these changes in
groups he identifies as among the “millennial” generation of students. He reports that while this group
tends to be more interactive and engaged within diverse communities, deep understandings of
diversity are still quite limited. In addition to maintaining relatively simplistic views of diversity,
analyses of these research findings indicate a lack of critical consciousness regarding fundamental
beliefs about diversity.
Some might argue that more superficial beliefs and teaching practices among preservice
teachers are simply a feature of teacher development (Dreyfus & Dreyfus, 1986; Zeichner, 1992). That is,
teacher development takes place along a continuum where the early stages of learning to teach are
often based upon gaining general knowledge about teachers’ work (Ball & Cohen, 1999; Putnam &
Borko, 2000; Rosenholtz, 1989). With time, researchers argue, the “sensemaking” (Coburn, 2001; 2004)
takes place among educators based upon interactions between the knowledge about teaching and the
knowledge gained through experience. A give-and-take between these levels of knowledge is refined
over time into the praxis within a teacher’s repertoire.
In addition, to influence of general growth in learning to teach, others argue that the
conventions of content areas may also lead teachers to adopt teaching practices and beliefs about
student learning that align with more commonplace practices in their content areas regarding the ways
in which curriculum and instruction are typically approached, ultimately socializing teacher behaviors
in K–12 classrooms (Gossman, 2008; Neumann, Parry, & Becher, 2002).
Our study is designed to foster a greater understanding of the impact of critical reflective
teaching for two content area teachers, with an examination of similarities and differences regarding
their perspectives on teaching as it relates to diversity. We address direct efforts using critical reflective
Mary Burbank, Laurie Ramirez, & Alisa Bates
The Professional Educator
teaching designed to move beliefs and attitudes to the more advanced developmental levels cited by
Castro (2010).
The literature is replete with arguments for practices in teacher education that examine issues of
power, privilege, and multicultural awareness (Sleeter, 2001; Thompson, 2003). Current research
advances teacher educators’ understandings of diversity through examinations of content area
preparation that explore social justice and equity in ways that are explicit and defined (Adair, 2008).
Through emphases that embed critically reflective thinking and practice within content area
discussions, our study examines the underpinnings of content area curriculum and traditional student–
teacher roles and their impact on teachers’ daily activities. Without deliberate efforts to broaden our
understanding of the influence of content area conventions on curricular and instructional decision
making, efforts to address equity and access through CRT become generic, superficial, and predictably
formulaic. We explore how content area preparation informs CRT, including teachers’ receptivity and
their ability to implement CRT, highlighting the influence of content area curriculum and instruction
on CRT thinking.