This is a study of teachers’ visions. Five participants were followed through their pre-service years in the teacher education program and into their first year of teaching to see if their vision was sustained and whether it appeared in their practice. This paper describes the coding process for visions and discusses changes that occurred in the visions as participants made the transition from pre-service to in-service teachers. The paper discusses dissonance between visions and practice and presents implications for teacher educators. As a teacher educator, I continually explore how to more successfully prepare high-quality reading teachers who not only know how to teach reading effectively but also possess a vision of their practice and reading instruction. Teacher visioning is a concept in teacher education that has garnered significant attention from teacher education and literacy scholars in recent years (Bransford, Derry, Berliner, Hammerness, & Beckett, 2005; Duffy, 2002; Fairbanks, Duffy, Faircloth, He, Levin, Rohr, & Stein, 2010; Gambrell, Malloy, & Mazzoni, 2011; Hammerness, 2006; Kennedy, 2006; Shulman & Shulman, 2004; Vaughn & Faircloth, 2011). Visions are images of ideal practice that guide teachers’ instructional decision-making and provide them with a touchstone for measuring their pedagogical efforts (Hammerness, 2006; Shulman & Shulman, 2004). Research on visioning that follows pre-service teachers into their in-service years is currently limited to two studies: Rattigan-Rohr (2005) and Hammerness (2006). Rattigan-Rohr studied prospective teachers’ initial and final vision statements during their introductory teaching class in their sophomore year prior to declaring education as their major. She found that the majority of prospective teachers did not have visions for teaching when entering the introductory class, and their visions seem to be shaped by the course experiences, particularly by the field experience component of the course. Rattigan-Rohr categorized visions as being moral or intellectual, based on the existing literature. Hammerness followed student teachers into their first few years of teaching and reported the focus of the visions and the influence of the visions’ attainability on teaching. She found the distance between vision and teaching context either sustained or led to discouragement with teaching. The attainable vision sustained and inspired teachers, while visions that were seemingly distant from reality or in opposition with mandates led to discouragement and career moves (Hammerness, 2006, 2008). As teacher educators, however, we have limited data regarding the sustainability of those visions, particularly those developed within teacher education programs. This article reports results from a longitudinal teacher education study that examines the visions of pre-service teachers in their junior and senior years through their first year of teaching. Problem This study examines whether pre-service teachers’ visions are enacted in the lessons they teach for literacy methods courses and whether their visions are sustained and enacted in literacy instruction during their first year of teaching. This study has implications for determining how teacher education influences teachers’ visions (Shulman & Shulman, 2004) and whether visions developed in pre-service education are sustained. Two questions propelled this study: 1. What is the focus of pre-service teachers’ visions? 2. How are pre-service teachers’ visions evident in their reflections on the teaching of literacy and in their first year of teaching? Theorizing Teacher Vision Over the past several years, teacher visioning has garnered significant scholarly attention (Bransford et al., 2005; Fairbanks et al., 2010; Gambrell, Malloy, & Mazzoni, 2011; Hammerness, 2006; 2008; Kennedy, 2006; Shulman & Shulman, 2004; Vaughn & Faircloth, 2011). Researchers have defined a “vision” in teaching in several different ways; however, a common theme emerges. Briefly, theorists present a vision as a source that inspires teachers and guides their classroom instruction (Duffy, 2002; Gambrell, Malloy, & Mazzoni, 2011; Feiman-Nemser, 2001; Hammerness et al., 2005; Hansen, 2001; Lampert, 2001; Shulman & Shulman, 2004). Rattigan-Rohr (2005) pulled from the research literature to define a teacher’s vision as a personal moral compass directing teachers to shape their practice and to act in ways they believe will positively benefit students. Possessing a vision, therefore, is an individual teacher’s commitment to a morality that goes beyond traditional curricular goals and acknowledges that teaching children also includes a responsibility to develop larger understandings and attitudes. Duffy (2005) calls vision a “moral compass” because visions create a conscious awareness of how teachers wish to touch the future. Similarly, theorists describe the call to teach as a mindset through which teachers create a vision of who they are and by which they make decisions to engage in constructivist or other forms of highly engaged teaching (Gambrell, Malloy, & Mazzoni, 2011; Garrison, 1997; Shulman & Shulman, 2004). Garrison (1997) argues that outstanding teachers not only answer the call to teach but that they “become this call…with persistence and care” (p. 74). In addition to a moral purpose, researchers conclude that the exceptional teacher also develops a vision with a strong intellectual purpose; this teacher develops a vision that seeks to create conditions that will stir children’s capabilities to achieve enhanced learning (Cuffaro, 1995; Gambrell, Malloy, & Mazzoni, 2011). Also, effective teachers are most often the ones who can be found working hard to ensure that their classroom practices are securely rooted in intellectual honesty and integrity (Ball, 1993; Lampert, 2001). As a matter of course, visionary teachers appear to be constantly seeking to find new and different ways to help their students learn and grow (Gambrell, Malloy, & Mazzoni, 2011). They know that finding new strategies and methods requires both growing and the “letting go” of favorite and long-accustomed techniques (Hammerness et al., 2005). We understand then that teachers with visions work hard to ensure their students are able to acquire insights into themselves and their world. Wood, Nelson, and Warfield (2001) lamented what they saw as the deficiency of an intellectual focus and the lack of movement toward a “well-articulated vision” by many teachers of mathematics (p. 12). They noted their view of the benefits of an intellectual vision for the development of mathematics instruction. In such a vision, teachers would focus the teaching on understanding and reasoning, and on high standards of achievement. They also noted, however, that in classrooms where this kind of well-articulated intellectual vision is missing, low-level instruction continues to dominate. A Vygotskian social constructivist perspective serves as a theory underlying how visions develop. Learning is more fully facilitated in the social context (Vygotsky, 1981). That is, pre-service teachers have had their entire career as students to observe teachers at work, a process Lortie (1975) labeled “apprenticeship of observation” (p. 61). Therefore, whatever understanding pre-service teachers construct about their developing visions has two components: (a) the thoughts or mindset they brought with them to the teacher education program, and (b) some possible adjustments and/or additions to those thoughts based upon what they learned in the social environment of the teacher education program. A fundamental idea to this Vygotskian social constructivist perspective is the concept of the zone of proximal development (ZPD) (Vygotsky, 1978). According to Vygotsky, the ZPD is the space between what one actually knows and what one potentially could know, as determined through problem solving under the influence of a more knowledgeable person. Therefore, the development of preservice teachers’ visions is likely influenced by contacts with various perspectives, presented to them within their ZPD, including information from readings, contact with teachers in field experiences, discussions about visions, interactions with peers, and other teacher education activities. The expectation from this line of reasoning is that pre-service teachers link social and external interactions to their own internal developing visions for teaching (Forman & Cazden, 1985), which influences their thinking (Hughes, 1958). In the pre-service years, students wrote a vision statement upon beginning a new semester in the teacher education program. After readings, lectures, discussions, and field experiences, students continued to refine and refocus their vision statements. Consequently, pre-service teachers revised and refined their vision statements multiple times over two years. 