Professional development school partnerships can improve teaching and learning in our schools. To support these partnerships, the National Council for the Accreditation of Teacher Education (NCATE) developed standards for professional development schools. In this article, we address the questions, “What NCATE standards work from the point of view of school principals and university faculty members when sustaining PDS partnerships?” and “How can universities improve PDS implementations so that all partners see the benefit of each NCATE standard?” Although, there is wide agreement between school leaders and university faculty on the importance of the standards, there are also some notable differences in their functionality. There is no doubt that a “fully functioning” professional development school (PDS) partnership can improve teaching and learning in our schools (Darling-Hammond, 2005; The Holmes Partnership, 2006; Levine, 2006; Tetiel, 2004; Van Scoy & Eldridge, 2012). These improvements manifest themselves in a variety of ways including, improved student achievement, powerful professional development opportunities for classroom teachers, and unique opportunities for undergraduate teacher candidates to learn their craft in a nurturing environment (Darling-Hammond & Baratz-Snowden, 2005; NCATE, 2006). School principals, district leaders, and university professors have opportunities to create meaningful partnerships that enhance both the school district and the university. However, building and sustaining quality professional development schools can be a challenge. Turnover in district and school-based leadership, changing areas of focus by universities or state policymakers, and limited financial and human resources can all place stress on a partnership. Having clear partnership expectations and lines of communication between the professional development school and the collaborating university are key to sustaining a meaningful partnership (Doolittle, Sudeck & Rattigan, 2008). The National Council for the Accreditation of Teacher Education (NCATE) has developed standards for professional development schools (Table 1) that have been broadly accepted in the educational community (NCATE, 2001a). These standards are important in several ways. First and foremost, the standards address the essential characteristics (critical attributes) of a PDS (Brindley, Field, & Lessen, 2008). Second, the standards have been instrumental in bringing about a general consensus within the profession regarding the definition of a professional development school. Third, the standards are designed to accommodate the developmental nature of PDS partnerships and include guidelines meant to support PDS development and implementation across various levels. Finally, the standards provide a common framework across partnerships for investigating PDS outcomes, assessing PDS quality, and promoting continued partnership development through self-study (NCATE, 2001b). 