This paper presents findings from a study surveying student teachers (N = 128) from two universities who reported a significantly greater influence by university-based supervisors on their teaching when they had taken a class with the supervisor prior to student teaching. The student teachers were more likely to report implementing university teachings and using supervisors’ advice than if they had not taken a class with that supervisor. These findings have important implications as they suggest a greater transfer of learning from the university to the classroom, producing student teachers who are willing to incorporate and implement universitybased practices in a new context. The No Child Left Behind (NCLB) mandate for more highly qualified teachers has forced teacher preparation programs to reflect, rethink, and reform their methods for training new teachers. New or additional classes, higher standards, and increased numbers of standardized tests (e.g., Praxis exams) are all being implemented in an effort to develop stronger, more effective programs with the expectation of improving teacher quality and student achievement. Student teaching, often the culminating experience of preservice teachers’ education, allows students to connect research to practice in an authentic setting (Zeichner, 2002). Thus, strengthening the student teaching experience is viewed as a key component to improving teacher education. Ongoing partnerships with schools, full-year internships, pre-student teaching placements, and extended field experiences are among the efforts to reform and improve the student teaching experience (e.g., McKinney et al., 2008; Devlin-Scherer, Mitchel, & Mueller, 2007; Latham & Vogt, 2007). Additionally, in an effort to nurture and secure master cooperating teachers, education programs are attempting to raise the bar regarding who can qualify as a cooperating teacher. Prior research indicates that cooperating teachers are seen as the most important figure in student teaching because student teachers often emulate their cooperating teachers, even when the instructional methods conflict with what is taught at the university (Glenn, 2006; Koeppen, 1998; Metcalf, 1991; Su, 1992; Zheng & Webb, 2000). For example, Bates and Burbank note that “student teachers quickly accommodate to classroom practices…without considering the impact on student learning” (2008, p. 31). The student teachers often believe that the classroom teachers have “real” experience and know better than their university education faculty (Marks, 2002). The role and influence of the university supervisor within the student teaching process is frequently ignored or discounted, often by both the student teacher and the cooperating teacher (Marks, 2002). A lack of impact on the student teacher has led some researchers to imply that university supervisors are superfluous (Metcalf, 1991; Zeichner & Gore, 1990). Instead of providing additional insights and support, university supervisors are viewed as “inspectors” rather than collaborative Kristen N. Asplin & Melissa J. Marks The Professional Educator partners (Ongel, Capa, & Vellom, 2002) and are seen as less qualified than cooperating teachers to grade student teachers (Zheng & Webb, 2000). Research on improving communication among the triad of student teacher, university supervisor, and cooperating teacher, or balancing this triad’s power structure, has often indicated that the university supervisor is the weak link (Silva, 2000; Tsui et al., 2001; Wilder & Croker, 1999). The other side of the debate posits that university supervisors are very important in “supporting student teachers’ implementation of recent reforms and theories learned in coursework” (Fernandez & Erbilgin, 2009, p. 94). This transfer of learning from the university to the classroom can be impacted by university supervisors when: (a) a positive relationship exists between the student teacher and the supervisor; (b) the student teacher recognizes the supervisor’s expertise and professionalism; (c) the supervisor is accessible; and (d) the supervisor consistently holds the student teacher to university expectations as they are expressed in university education classes or in a student teacher handbook (Marks, 2002). Additionally, university supervisors appear to provide emotional support needed for student teachers to acclimate to the initial hurdles encountered in student teaching (Caires, Almeida, & Martins, 2010; Caires & Almeida, 2007). More generally, instructors fulfill a variety of roles that can influence student teachers. They serve as experts on course content, as learning facilitators, curriculum developers, mentors and role models, resource providers, and supporters and nurturers of students. An effective student-teacher relationship can have a pervasive impact on the social, emotional, cognitive, and behavioral lives of students. Student teachers considered their university supervisors’ “personal features,” including being supportive, non-judgmental, and helpful, to be essential to overcoming obstacles and maintaining their emotional balance during student teaching (Caires & Almeida, 2007). In clinical psychological research, the concept of therapeutic alliance suggests that the relationship between the counselor and the client is a key factor in the success of therapy (Krupnick et al., 1996). Similarly, the bond between instructor and student may enrich and influence the student’s life and may also lead to an increased amount of transfer from that instructor’s teaching to the student’s own classroom practices. This bond may be especially important because the social and emotional experiences upon entering student teaching are often unexpected by the student teacher. Their selfview as teachers change due to the “reality shock” (Caires et al., 2010). Their high self-expectations and belief that “they know and control all the facets of the profession and of the school ethos” (Fernandez & Erbilgin, 2009, p. 17) are challenged by the realities of the classroom. These changes in self-perception leading to teacher socialization can be attributed to the Sociocultural Theory of Learning (e.g., Vygotsky, 1934/1962). According to the Sociocultural Theory, knowledge about teaching is socially constructed between the learner and the community around them: Preservice teachers are processing ideas, beliefs, and practices from the communities in which they are involved. While at the university, this community consists of faculty, fellow education students, and other university-based inputs. Once in the school classroom, however, the context that the student teacher operates in has changed. Now their community consists primarily of classroom teachers, students, and parents. While the university supervisor bridges these communities, the influence of his or her “voice” within the student teaching community is ambiguous. With the overall goal of investigating whether certain university procedures can increase the influence and effectiveness of the student teaching experience, two intermediate questions became the focus of our study. First, is there a difference Increasing University Supervisor Influence Volume 37, No. 1 • Spring, 2013 between student teachers who had previously taken a class with their university supervisor compared to those who had not in regard to the student-teacher relationship; willingness to take advice; likelihood of the using university-taught methods; and overall perception of the university supervisor’s knowledge of pedagogy, content, and the “real” classroom? Second, is there a correlation between student teachers’ relationships with their university supervisors and their likelihood of using university-taught methods in their classrooms, accepting their university supervisors’ advice, and valuing their university supervisors’ knowledge? These two questions taken together show how the relationship between supervisors and student teachers affects the transfer of learning from university to school classroom and thus shed light on the effectiveness and influence of university supervisors. 