Across the nation, educators continue to face challenges as they work to individualize instruction to meet the specific needs of their students. However, theory suggests that teachers who possess a clear vision for teaching creatively weave their personal convictions for teaching with instructional practices. Drawing upon a teacher’s (first author) account of her vision and the classroom literacy practices structured over the course of one year, a practical approach is taken to address teacher visioning as a way to sustain teachers’ creativity despite the pressures associated with teaching in today’s educational climate. Recent educational reform efforts (see Race to the Top, 2009) continue to pressure educators to teach according to standardized curricula despite the fact that such efforts have been proven to fail many of the nation’s students (Good, 2011). In contrast, scholars contend that by following one’s vision, teachers may be able to “speak back” to institutional directives and therefore more easily meet the individual needs of their students (Achinstein & Ogawa, 2006; Duffy; 2002; Hammerness, 2003; 2006; Vaughn & Faircloth, 2011). By creating a vision for teaching, educators are able to craft an “ideal image” of what it is they wish to accomplish in their classrooms and use this to sustain them throughout their teaching career (Hammerness, 2006). Teachers who enact a clear vision are often able to “adjust, modify, and invent” (Duffy, 2002, p. 333) as they use their vision to guide their work. Much like “a mirror… teachers [use] their vision and recognize successes as well as identifying areas for improvement” (p. 3). Gambrell and her colleagues (2011) support this claim as they suggest that “without a vision the teacher is left to sway and sputter as a candle facing the winds of curricular change and federal, district, and school level impositions” (p. 18). A teacher’s vision is therefore, arguably, an essential tool in classrooms today. Like many educators across the nation, I (first author) was frustrated with my district and my principal’s efforts to enforce prescribed educational policies that did not fit the individual needs of my students. I conducted this self-study research project as a way to explore my vision for teaching, the way it was enacted, and to understand the relationship between these foundational variables and my students’ literacy experiences. At the time of the study, I was a beginning doctoral candidate at a university in the southeastern part of the United States. This study began as a course assignment and was then extended to further examine how I worked to enact my vision despite teaching in a restrictive climate. The research questions guiding this study include: 1. What were the salient dimensions of my vision? 2. How were classroom activities structured to meet this vision? 3. In what ways did my students experience literacy (both their practices and their responses) as my vision was enacted? In this article, I share my reflections about my teaching over the course of one year and focus on the ways in which I negotiated my vision for teaching literacy within the curriculum, as well as the ways in which my students participated in these literacy activities. Although I taught in a school that recommended scripted curricula, I adapted and modified the curriculum based on my vision to meet the individual needs of my students. I provide insight into my understandings about my teaching practice and suggest that through doing research of one’s classroom practice, educators may sustain their vision and continue to grow. Related Literature Many scholars have noted the ways in which prescriptive literacy programs restrict teacher autonomy and creativity (Dooley & Assaf, 2009; Pearson, Raphael, Benson & Madda, 2007; Vaughn & Parsons, 2012). Although such prescriptive measures have served to limit teachers’ instructional decisions, the impact on student achievement has also generated a dismal picture. Results from the U.S. Department of Education’s National Center for Education Statistics (NCES) found that during the time federally approved prescriptive literacy programs flooded the nation, the achievement gap in reading grew wider from the start of kindergarten in fall 1998 to the end of 3rd grade in spring 2002. More recently, according to the 2011 National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP), the average fourth grade and eighth grade reading scores remained unchanged from 2009 scores. Such results suggest that despite federal mandates to increase student achievement in literacy, the efforts have not produced significant gains. In contrast, scholars theorize that teacher visioning may be a way to empower educators, giving them a voice against institutional directives that have limited teachers’ instructional decisions (Duffy, 2005; Hammerness, 2008; Vaughn, 2013). These studies suggest that as teachers use their vision to make decisions, they work to provide instruction they believe best fit the individual needs of their students, classrooms, and school community. According to Hammerness (2006), visions “…can help reveal how teachers conceive of their subjects and their students and how much they pay attention to each” (p. 6). Taken together, visioning suggests a viable tool to empower today’s educators to teach according to their personal convictions and beliefs of what works best for their students. Researchers have begun to examine how even very young students participate in reading activities during teacher-led literacy activities, often examining how students perform during such activities (Davis, 2007; Sipe, 2000). Toth, Dobo-Tarai, and Revak-Moarkoczi (2007) found that first graders provided detailed knowledge of complex concepts when interviewed of their understandings. Similarly, Dyson (1997), in her important work with young kindergarten students, found that young readers and writers described detailed stories about their out-of-school lives and provided clear understandings and beliefs about literacy. Building from this, the current study explored first graders’ reactions to literacy instruction through the use of interviews and observations as a way to fully explore their engagement in and reaction to literacy activities and to contextualize my vision within the classroom. Like many educators, while I had confidence in my vision, my vision was at odds with my school’s recommendations. At the time, my colleagues and I were strongly encouraged to use the same scripted literacy program and to level students according to designated labels (high, medium, and low) in an effort to send them to different classrooms for ability-based reading instruction. The school claimed this practice was grounded in research and would increase students’ test scores on the state-mandated Developmental Reading Assessments (DRA; Beaver, 2006) that were given to first graders. I argued against this practice because I was opposed to labeling students as low, medium, and high. Based on my teaching experiences, such designations lowered students’ confidence, turning reading into a competitive activity, and it appeared to create barriers for students. Students seemed to live up to that expectation, often believing that reading was not something they could or should do. Additionally, teachers in grades kindergarten through second grade were pulled from their classrooms in the spring to conduct test preparation with the third through fifth grades. The administration suggested these grades needed remedial support to pass the state’s assessments. Because of this, K–2 teachers were pulled each day over the course of 3 weeks, during their literacy block, to conduct small-group “skills and drills” lessons with upper elementary students. This testing blitz sent a message to K–2 that high-stakes testing was perhaps more important than the literacy instruction in the lower grades. During this time, teaching assistants were asked to conduct literacy instruction. Additionally, I was opposed to this practice because believed that a “skills and drills” approach was not providing students with the necessary support they needed. Moreover, this approach to teaching was very distant from instructional practices I believed fit with my vision. As such, the emphasis on testing and teaching using this approach proved to be an obstacle that conflicted with my vision for teaching. In contrast, I wanted students to develop at their individual pace while participating in the literacy curriculum. Thus, I did not use the scripted curriculum program recommended by my principal and used by my colleagues. In doing so, this brought conflict, but I worked to develop instruction to meet my vision. 