Current reform efforts seek to redesign teacher education in alignment with a practice-based theory, a fundamental reconceptualization of higher education demanding a tighter alignment with K-12 school practices. The Faculty Research Residency Model—a Department of Education Funds for the Improvement of PostSecondary Education (FIPSE) grant supported project—draws upon practice-based theory and leverages existing school-university partnerships to create opportunities for faculty to research practices in high need urban schools to inform university course redesign. This study describes the faculty research residency model, reports on year one results of the project, describes implications for refining the model, and provides recommendations to inform others seeking to improve university coursework through school-university partnerships. Teacher education has come under fire for not preparing teacher candidates to enact rigorous and robust instruction, particularly to students of color or those living in poverty (Blanchett, 2006; Grant & Gillette, 2006; Ladson-Billings, 2005). Referred to as “the problem of enactment,” teacher candidates are frequently unable to translate theories of effective teaching and learning into practice—and thereby fail to promote rigorous and robust student learning (Hammerness et al., 2005). Currently, there is an effort to combat the problem of enactment by recommending a practice-based theory of teacher learning (Ball & Forzani, 2010; Lambert, 2010) that calls for a fundamental reconceptualization of how teacher education coursework is designed and delivered. To address problems of enactment occurring within our school-university partnership settings and improve the caliber of university curriculum and coursework using a practice-based approach, we designed the Faculty Research Residency (FRR) project. The FRR Project spans 2011–13 and is funded by a three-year Department of Education grant. The project was designed to improve teacher education, strengthen existing school partnerships, and create new ways for university faculty to learn in, with, and from the classroom or school context. In the FRR Project, university faculty are situated in high-need, urban schools to: 1) engage in a research project in their discipline to better understand and/or impact student learning; and 2) use the contextual knowledge gained from this in-depth experience to inform teacher preparation course redesign to more effectively prepare teacher candidates, which in turns supports our partnering network schools. University faculty also met in monthly seminars to discuss research on practice-based theory and collaborate on research and course redesign. This descriptive narrative reports on data reflecting the first year of the grant. The purpose of this study was to understand how faculty experienced and perceived the FRR project. In particular, we wanted to understand if the FRR project facilitated faculty research in high-need schools and contributed to curricular redesign utilizing a practice-based approach. This narrative describes the FRR Wendy Gardiner & Diane Salmon The Professional Educator project and provides lessons learned from year one to inform subsequent grant cycles and increase the likelihood that the grant will improve teaching and learning. This narrative is also intended to describe a model and collaborative process for engaging faculty in high-need schools to improve university coursework and respond to the pervasive problems of enactment that beginning teachers’ experience. Conceptual Framework Practice-Based Theory A practice-based theory for teacher learning demands a situated approach in which theory (which is typically generalized) is specifically linked to and embedded in the actual tasks and activities of teaching (Ball & Forzani, 2010; Hammerness et al., 2005; Lambert, 2010). A shift to a practice-based design in teacher learning requires that teacher educators deepen their participation within schools to redesign university learning to explicitly explore the nexus of theory and practice (Darling-Hammond, 2010; Wang et al., 2010). The outcome of tighter integration between theory and practice is better prepared teacher candidates who are more likely to overcome the challenges of “enactment” in complex classroom environments and ultimately improve student learning (Hammerness et al., 2005). Grossman and colleagues (2009) provide a framework that is assistive in thinking about redesigning coursework and restructuring teaching to reflect a practice-based theory. Drawn from a study of how beginning professionals best learn the core practices of their chosen profession, Grossman and colleagues identified three key and interrelated concepts to guide university teaching: representations, decomposition, and approximation of practice. Representations of practice are utilized to examine and analyze the visible and invisible aspects of a practice and help novices develop a more concrete and robust understanding of a given practice. Representations for teacher education often include case studies, examples of student work, lesson and unit plans, video, observation, and modeling a practice. When using representations of practice, an important role of the instructor is to help reveal the nuances that a novice would not observe, such as teacher thinking and decision making. Decomposition involves breaking down a complex practice into the constituent parts. Decomposition is used to isolate, identify, and then practice the different components of a core practice. Decomposition provides a process for scaffolding the development of a complex practice. Then, the practice is “recomposed” from component parts back to the whole. Examples of decomposed practice include focusing on specific elements of lesson plans such as practicing and analyzing lesson openings and closing; or identifying and practices different aspects of a read aloud such as reading with expression or asking engaging questions. Over time, the fully integrated, or “recomposed,” practice should become a routine. Approximations provide opportunities to enact a complex teaching practice outside of the K-12 classroom context. Practice opportunities in the university setting allow novices to implement a specific practice, such as guided reading, from start to finish without the added challenge of managing and responding to events that occur in a classroom of children, while also receiving targeted feedback on their performance. As such, approximations can help a novice feel more secure and steady in implementation prior to enacting a practice with a group or classroom of children. For teacher educators to apply a practice-based approach, they need to understand how the practices they teach are enacted in the field settings in which their teacher candidates are placed and understand the challenges of enactment. By developing a more contextualized and nuanced Research Residencies Volume 38, No. 1 • Spring, 2014 understanding, faculty are more likely to select and create the representations, decompositions, and approximations of practice that are more likely to improve teacher candidates’ learning and foster transfer. Yet, structural and cultural factors tend to inhibit faculty’s capacity to improve upon their coursework. 